
===== PAGE 01 =====
SIEMENS

ions

Instruct
installation

it Breakers

IrCu

38kV Vacuum C

Operation

SAF

Type 38

intenance

Ma

SG-3528

arranger saitics

ty BE aroty ee


===== PAGE 02 =====
Hazardous voltages and high-speed moving parts.

Will cause death, serious personal injury or equipment
damage.

Always de-energize and ground the equipment before
maintenance. Maintenance should be performed only
by qualified personnel. The use of unauthorized parts in
the repair of the equipment or tampering by unqualified
personne will result in dangerous conditions which will
cause severe personal injury or equipment damage.
Follow all safety instructions contained herein.

IMPORTANT

The information contained herein is general in nature and not intended for specific
application purposes. It does not relieve the user of responsibility to use sound practices
in application, installation, operation, and maintenance of the equipment purchased.
Siemens reserves the right to make changes in the specifications shown herein or
to make improvements at any time without notice or obligations. Should a conflict
arise between the general information contained in this publication and the contents
of drawings or supplementary material or both, the latter shall take precedence.

QUALIFIED PERSON

For the purpose of this manual a qualified person is one who is familiar with the
installation, construction or operation of the equipment and the hazards
involved. In addition, this person has the following qualifications:

(a) is trained and authorized to de-energize, clear, ground, and tag circuits
and equipment in accordance with established safety practices.

(b) is trained in the proper care and use of protective equipment such as rubber
gloves, hard hat, safety glasses or face shields, flash clothing, etc., in accordance
with established safety practices.

(c) is trained in rendering first aid.

SUMMARY

These instructions do not purport to cover all details or variations in equipment, nor to provide for every possible
contingency to be met in connection with installation, operation, or maintenance. Should further information be
desired or should particular problems arise which are not covered sufficiently for the purchaser's purposes, the
matter should be referred to the local sales office.

The contents of this instruction manual shall not become part of or modify any prior or existing agreement, com-
mitment or relationship. The sales contract contains the entire obligation of Siemens Energy & Automation, Inc.
The warranty contained in the contract between the parties is the sole warranty of Siemens Energy & Automation,
Inc. Any statements contained herein do not create new warranties or modify the existing warranty.


===== PAGE 03 =====
28kV Vacuum Circuit Breakers

al

Table of Contents

Introduction and Safety

Introduction .........c.

Qualified Person

Signal Words

Dangerous Procedures...
Field Service Operation...

NNN WN bly

Receiving, Handling and Storage
Introduction

Receiving Procedure...

Shipping Damage Claims

Handling Procedure.
Storage Procedure

Indoor Storage

Outdoor Storage.....
Space Heating ........-essesseceesseessseseecseeeneneensnssnsnsscacsnsessnsnreresenensanees

Introduction

to bv & & & www

Installation Checks and Initial Functional Tests...............2s+ 4-7

Inspections, Checks and Tests without Control! Power ........-.+
De-Energizing Control Power in Switchgear .......-.s.sssrecssesrssees
Spring Discharge Check.......sssseesescsesseseesteeerses .
Removal from Cell in Indoor (if not on raised pad) and Shelter

Clad Outdoor SWitChQear .......ssessscsssereseeeeseceeesenenecaesternes
Removal from Cell in Outdoor Non-Walk-In Enclosures, or for

Indoor Switchgear Installed on a Raised Pad........
Racking Crank Engagement Procedure...........s:-sssssseserssensetsnernes
Physical Inspections ......

wh

Manual Spring Charging Check

As-Found and Vacuum Check Tests

Automatic Spring Charging Check

Final Mechanical Inspections withour Control Power..............--

Interrupter/Operator Description
Introduction...

Vacuum Interrupter:

Primary Disconnects

Phase Barriers

Stored Energy Operating Mechanism
Interrupter/Operator Module
Construction

Breaker Pole
Current-Path Assembly
Vacuum Interrupter
Switching Operation
Operating Mechanism
Construction
Indirect releases (Tripping Coil)
Motor Operating Mechanism
Auxiliary Switch
Mode of Operation
Charging
Closing
Trip Free Operation
Opening
Rapid Auto-Reclosing
Manual! Operation
Manually Charging the Closing Spring
Manual Closing
Manual Opening

Indirect Releases (Dual Trip or Undervoltage) (optiona))........... 16
Secondary (Shunt) Release (optional) 16
Undervoltage Release (optional) 16
Construction and Mode of Operation of Secondary Release

and Undervoltage Rel 16

Capacitor Trip Device
Shock Absorber
Secondary Disconnect
Auxiliary Switch... we
MOC (Mechanism Operated Cell) SWitch ........scsscesscetseecneneerens 18
TOC (Truck Operated Cell) Switch
Trip Free Interlock.........
Rating Interlock
Circuit Breaker Frame
Ground Disconnect.....
Circuit Breaker Handling Wheels
Racking Mechanism ............

Vehicle Description 21-22
Vehicle Function and Operational Interlocks........ cesses 21
ALIGN Ment ........sssscsssssscesseeeeeeseseeeesesersessasenenerecesansenseaeeeseneesseneuaeanenenes 21
interlocks susuavsnuacecescenscaseesecssaeseusneeteeesevaceusesscnnservessessass 21
Breaker Racking Interlocks...........ee 7 21
Rating Interlock 21
Racking Interlock.......ssscssssesseessersersetsesssseeessenstsanetsnesssnnanners 21
Automatic Closing Spring Energy Release..........sereresseees 22
Trip Free Interlock Position Mechanical Interlock............++ 22
Maintenance 23-29
Introduction and Maintenance Intervals ........:csscseseeeeeteerereeaere 23

Recommended Hand Tools
Metric ........ cece

AMe@fPican ..... eee

Recommended Maintenance and Lubrication ........cscseeereerees 23
Removal from Switchgear . 24
Checks of the Primary Power Path we 24
Cleanliness Check .....c.ccsscscsrcessserssseereneneesesssesseseneneasensesesesenesee snes 24
Inspection of Primary Disconnects....... 25
Checks of the Stored Energy Operator Mechanism .........-.+0 25
Fastener Check.... vase 25
Manual Spring Charging and Contact Erosion Checks............. 25
Electrical Control Checks 26
Check of the Wiring and Terminals 26
Check of the Secondary Disconnect 26

Electrical Close and Trip Check (Control! Power Required)........27
Checks of the Spring Charging Motor
Vacuum Interrupters.
Interrupter Vacuum Check Mechanical
High-Potential Tests
Vacuum Integrity Check (using Dielectric Test)
High Potential Test Voltages
Vacuum Integrity Test Procedure

As-Found Insulation and Contact Resistance Tests........... 29
Insulation and Contact Resistance Test Equipment ............- 29
Inspection and Cleaning of Breaker Insulation............-s-seeree 29
Functional Tests 29
Overhaul 30-31
Introduction... 30
Circuit Breaker Overhaul 30
Replacement at Overhaul 30
Replacement of Vacuum Interrupters 30
Hydraulic Shock Absorber - 31
Maintenance and Troubleshooting 33-35
Appendix 36-37

[Cover 1063-93]

1

===== PAGE 04 =====
Introduction and Satety

Introduction

The 38-3AF family of vacuum circuit breakers is designed to
meet all the applicable ANSI, NEMA and IEEE standards.
Successful application and operation of this equipment
depends as much upon proper installation and maintenance
by the user as it does upon the careful design and fabrication
by Siemens.

The purpose of this Instruction Manual is to assist the user in
developing safe and efficient procedures for the installation,
maintenance and use of the equipment.

Contact the nearest Siemens representative if any additional
information is desired.

ADANGER

Hazardous voltages and high-speed moving parts.

Will cause death, personal injury or property
damage.

To avoid electrical shock, burns and entanglement
in moving parts this equipment must be installed,
operated and maintained only by qualified persons
thoroughly familiar with the equipment, instruction
manuals and drawings.

Qualified Person

For the purpose of this manual a Qualified Person is one who
is familiar with the installation, construction or operation of the
equipment and the hazards involved. In addition, this person
has the following qualifications:

* Training and authorization to energize, de-energize, clear,
ground and tag circuits and equipment in accordance with
established safety practices.

* Training in the proper care and use of protective equipment
such as rubber gloves, hard hat, safety glasses, face shields,
flash clothing, etc., in accordance with established safety pro-
cedures.

Training in rendering first aid.

Signal Words

The signal words “Danger”, “Warning” and “Caution” used
in this manual indicate the degree of hazard that may be
encountered by the user. These words are defined as:

Danger - Indicates an imminently hazardous situation
which, if not avoided, will result in death or serious injury.

Warning - Indicates a potentially hazardous situation which, if
not avoided, could result in death or serious injury.

Caution - indicates a potentially hazardous situation which,
if not avoided, may result in minor or moderate injury.

Dangerous Procedures
In addition to other procedures described in this manual as
dangerous, user personnel must adhere to the following:

1. Always work on de-energized equipment. Always de-
energize a breaker, and remove it from the switchgear
before performing any tests, maintenance or repair.

2. Always perform maintenance on the breaker after the
spring-charged mechanisms are discharged.

3. Always let an interlock device or safety mechanism per-
form its function without forcing or defeating the device.

Field Service Operation

Siemens can provide competent, well-trained Field Service
Representatives to provide technical guidance and advisory
assistance for the installation, overhaul, repair and mainte-
nance of Siemens equipment, processes and systems.
Contact regional service centers, sales offices or the factory
for details.

===== PAGE 05 =====
Receiving, Handling and Storage

a

Introduction

This manual covers the Receiving, Handling and Storage
instructions for Type 38-3AF vacuum circuit breakers shipped
separately from the switchgear. This section of the manual is
intended to help the user identify, inspect and protect the cir-
cuit breaker prior to its installation.

Receiving Procedure

Make a physical inspection of the shipping container before
removing or unpacking the circuit breaker. Check for shipment
damage or indications of rough handling by the carrier. Check
each item against the manifest to identify any shortages.

Accessories such as the manual charging crank, the racking crank
and the split plug jumper (optional) are shipped separately.

Shipping Damage Claims (when applicable) - Follow normal
shipment damage procedures, which should include:

1. Check for visible damage upon arrival.

2. Visible damage must be noted on delivery receipt, and
acknowledged with driver's signature. Notation, “Possible
internal damage, subject to inspection” must be on deliv-
ery receipt.

3. Notify the Siemens Sales office immediately of any ship-
ment damage.

4. Arrange for carrier's inspection. Do not move the unit from
its unloading point.

Handling Procedure

1. Carefully remove the shipping carton from the circuit
breaker. Keep the shipping pallet for later use if the breaker
is to be stored prior to its installation.

2. Inspect for concealed damage. Notification to carrier must
take place within 15 days to assure prompt resolution of claims.

3. Each circuit breaker should be appropriately lifted using a
Siemens lift truck or lift sling. Avoid crushing the side pan-

els of the breaker, or damaging the primary disconnect
subassemblies.

AWARNING
Heavy weight.

a

Type 38-3AF circuit breakers weigh between 800 and
1000 pounds (364-455 kg).

Can cause death, serious injury, or property
damage.

Obtain the services of a qualified rigger prior to
hoisting the circuit breaker to assure adequate
safety margins in the hoisting equipment and pro-
cedures to avoid damage.

4. The palleted circuit breaker can also be moved using a
properly rated fork-lift vehicle. The pallets are designed for
movement by a standard fork-lift vehicle.

Storage Procedure

1. Whenever possible, install circuit breakers in their
assigned switchgear enclosures for storage. Follow
instructions contained in the Switchgear Instruction
Manual, SG-3518.

2. When the breaker will be placed on its pallet for storage,
be sure the unit is securely bolted to the pallet and cov-
ered with polyethylene film at least 10 mils thick.

Indoor Storage - Whenever possible, store the circuit breaker
indoors. The storage environment must be clean, dry and free
of such items as construction dust, corrosive atmosphere,
mechanical abuse and rapid temperature variations.

Outdoor Storage - Outdoor storage is not recommended.
When no other option is available, the circuit breaker must be
completely covered and protected from rain, snow, dirt and all
other contaminants.

Space Heating - Space heating must be used for both indoor
and outdoor storage to prevent condensation and corrosion.
During storage, 250 watts per breaker of space heating is rec-
ommended. If the circuit breakers are stored inside the
switchgear enclosures, and the switchgear is equipped with
space heaters, energize the space heaters.

===== PAGE 06 =====
Installation Checks and Initial Functional Tests

Introduction

This section provides a description of the inspections, checks
and tests to be performed on the circuit breaker prior to opera-
tion in the metal-clad switchgear.

Inspections, Checks and Tests without Control Power
Vacuum circuit breakers are normally shipped with their prima-
ry contacts open and their springs discharged. However, it is
critical to first verify the discharged condition of the spring-
loaded mechanisms after de-energizing control power.

De-Energizing Control Power in Switchgear - When the cir-
cuit breaker is mounted in switchgear, open the control power
disconnect device in the metal-clad switchgear cubicle.

The control power disconnect device is normally located on
the secondary device panel in the upper cell of the vertical
section. The normal control power disconnect device is a pull-
out type fuse holder. Removal of the fuse holder de-energizes
control power to the circuit breaker in the associated
switchgear cell. In some switchgear assemblies, a molded
case circuit breaker or knife switch is used in lieu of the pull
out type fuse holder. Opening this circuit breaker or switch
accomplishes the same result: control power is disconnected.

Spring Discharge Check (Figure 1) - Perform the Spring
Discharge Check before removing the circuit breaker from the
pallet or removing it from the switchgear.

The spring discharge check should be performed after de-
energizing contro! power. This check assures that both the
tripping and closing springs are fully discharged.

A DANGER

Hazardous voltages and high-speed moving parts.

Will cause death, severe personal injury, or
property damage.

Read instruction manuals, observe safety instruc-
tions and use qualified personnel.

NOTE: Do not perform Spring Discharge Check if the circuit
breaker is in the CONNECT position. Open circuit breaker
and rack to the DISCONNECT position, and then perform
Spring Discharge Check.

1. Press red Trip pushbutton.

2. Press black Close pushbutton.

3. Again press red Trip pushbutton.

4. Verify Spring Condition indicator shows DISCHARGED.

5. Verify Main Contact Status Indicator shows OPEN.
Removal from Cell in Indoor (if not on raised pad) and
Shelter-Clad Outdoor Switchgear

After performing the Spring Discharge Check (with control

power de-energized), remove the circuit breaker from its
switchgear cubicle.

1. Insert the racking crank on the racking screw on the front
of the breaker cell, and push in (see “Racking Crank
Engagement”). This action operates the racking interlock
latch. Figure 2 shows racking of a circuit breaker.

2. Rotate the racking crank counterclockwise until the
breaker is in the DISCONNECT position.

3. Move the breaker release latch (on the floor of the cell
near the right side of the circuit breaker) to the left and pull
the circuit breaker out from the DISCONNECT position.
The breaker can now be removed from cubicle.

4. The circuit breaker is now free to be rolled out on the floor
using the handles on the front. The wheels of the circuit break-
er are at floor level (unless the switchgear is installed on a
raised pad), and one person can easily handle the unit.

RCE

SRaeen ais Ni
af
MU

FT

1059-93

Figure 1. Front Panel Controls of Type 38-3AF Circuit Breaker

Figure 2. Racking of 38-3AF Circuit Breaker

===== PAGE 07 =====
Installation: Checks and Initial Functional Tests

Removal from Cell in Outdoor Non-Walk-In Enclosures, or
for Indoor Switchgear Installed on a Raised Pad

Removal of the breaker from a non-walk-in outdoor switchgear
assembly is similar to removal of a breaker at floor level, with
several additional steps.

Figure-3.shows one of the two breaker extension rails being
inserted into the fixed rails within the breaker cell. The rails
engage locking pins in the fixed rails to secure them in position.

1309-94

Figure 3. Use of Extension Rails for Removal of Circuit
Breaker not at Floor Level

The procedure for removal of a circuit breaker not located at
floor level is:

1. Insert the two extension rails into the fixed rails. Be sure
the extension rails are properly secured in place. (This can
be done at Step 4 if preferred.}

2. Insert the racking crank on the racking screw on the front
of the breaker cell, and push in (see “Racking Crank
Engagement Procedure”). This action operates the rack-
ing interlock latch.

3....Rotate the racking crank counterclockwise until the
breaker is in the DISCONNECT position.

4. If you have not yet installed the extension rails, do so now.

AWARNING

Heavy Weight.

Can cause death, serious injury, or property damage.

Always use extension rails to remove or install cir
cuit breaker in cells not installed at floor level.

5. Move the breaker release latch to the left and pull the cir-
cuit breaker out from the DISCONNECT position. The
breaker is now free to be rolled out on the two extension
rails using the handles on the front of the circuit breaker.

6. Remove the breaker from the two extension rails using
the approved Siemens breaker lifting device or a Siemens
lifting sling and a suitable crane.

7. Lift the two extension rails and withdraw them from the
switchgear.

Type 38-3AF circuit breakers weigh between 800 and 1000
pounds (364-455 kg), depending upon their ratings. The breaker
can be moved using a properly rated crane and lift sling. A lift
sling can be attached to the breaker, and then used to hoist the
circuit breaker vertically clear of the extension rails. When clear,
remove the rails and lower the circuit breaker to the floor.

AWARNING

Heavy Weight.

Can cause death, serious injury, or property
damage.

Never transport a circuit breaker on a lift truck with
the circuit breaker in the raised position.

Racking Crank Engagement Procedure

A crank for racking the drawout unit is provided as a standard
accessory. Racking of a circuit breaker can be accomplished
with the drawout compartment front door open or through a
small opening (or window) in the front door, with the door
closed. Racking of a rollout fuse truck is accomplished with
the compartment front door open.

The racking crank consists of an offset handle end with a custom
socket assembly welded to the end. The socket end of the
crank is designed to engage the shoulder of the racking mech-
anism shaft and remain engaged during racking by means of
two spring plungers located 180 degrees from each other. The
socket plungers operate in a manner similar to the retainers of
an ordinary mechanic’s socket wrench.

The portion of the racking mechanism shaft which is visible is
cylindrical, and the shoulder of the racking mechanism shaft is
hidden by a shroud until the engagement procedure starts.
The square socket end of the crank will only engage the shoulder
of the shaft if it is aligned properly.

The suggested procedure to engage the racking mechanism is
as follows:

1. The breaker must be open. (The racking shroud cannot be
moved if the breaker is closed).

2. Hold the socket end of the crank in one hand and the
crank handle in the other hand.

3. Place the socket over the end of the racking mechanism
shaft. Align the socket with the shoulder on the racking
mechanism shaft. Note: If the socket is not aligned, the
socket will not be able to engage the shoulder of the racking
mechanism shaft.

5

===== PAGE 08 =====
Installation Checks and Initial Functional Tests

4, Once alignment is achieved, firmly push the crank and
socket assembly toward the racking mechanism.

5. When properly engaged, the crank should remain connected
to the racking mechanism, due to the socket plungers. If the
crank does not remain in position, adjust the spring plungers
clockwise one-half tum. This will increase the contact pressure
of the spring plunger.

6. To remove the crank, simply pull the assembly off of the
racking mechanism shaft.

NOTE: If the effort to rack’ the circuit breaker increases consider
ably during racking; or if turning of the racking crank requires
excessive force, stop racking immediately. Do not try to “force”
the racking crank to rotate, or parts of the circuit breaker or
racking mechanism could be damaged. Determine the source
of the problem and correct it before continuing with racking.

Physical Inspections
1. Verify that rating of the circuit breaker is compatible with
both the system and the switchgear.

2. Perform a visual shipping damage check. Clean the breaker
of all shipping dust, dirt and foreign material.

Manual Spring Charging Check

1. Insert the manual spring charging crank into the manual
charge handle socket as shown in Figure 4. Turn the
crank clockwise (about 45 revolutions) until the spring con-
dition indicator shows the closing spring is Charged.

2. Repeat the Spring Discharge Check.

3. Verify that the springs are discharged and the breaker pri-
mary contacts are open by indicator positions.

Figure 4. Manual Charging of Closing Springs

As-Found and Vacuum Check Tests - Perform and record
the results of both the As-Found insulation test and the vacu-
um check high-potential test. Procedures for these tests are
described in the Maintenance Section of this manual.

Automatic Spring Charging Check

Note: A temporary source of contro! power and test leads
may be required if the control power source has not been con-
nected to the switchgear. (Refer to the specific wiring infor-
mation and rating label for your circuit breaker to determine
the voltage required and where the control voltage signal
should be applied. Usually, spring charging power is connect-
ed to secondary disconnect fingers SD16 and SD15, closing
control power to SD13 and SD15, and tripping power to SD1
and SD2.) Note, secondary disconnect terminals are num-
bered 1-16, from right to left. When control power is connect-
ed to the 38-3AF circuit breaker, the closing springs should
automatically charge.

The automatic spring charging features of the circuit breaker
must be checked. Control power is required for automatic
spring charging to take place.

1. Open control power circuit by opening the control power
disconnect device.

2. Install breaker end of split plug jumper (if furnished) as
shown in Figure 5 to the circuit breaker. The plug jumper
is secured over the circuit breaker’s secondary contacts,
by means of screws.

3. Install the switchgear end of the plug jumper shown in
Figure 6 to the secondary disconnect block inside the
switchgear cubicle. The jumper slides into place. The plug
jumper interconnects all control power and signal leads
(e.g., remote trip and close contacts) between the
switchgear and the circuit breaker.

4. Energize (close) the control power circuit disconnect.

5. Use the Close and Trip controls (Figure 1) to first Close
and then Open the circuit breaker contacts. Verify contact
positions visually by observing the Open/Closed indicator
on the circuit breaker.

6. De-energize control power by repeating Step 1.
Disconnect the plug jumper from the switchgear first and
next from the circuit breaker.

7. Perform the Spring Discharge Check again. Verify that the
closing springs are discharged and the primary contacts of
the 38-3AF circuit breaker are open.

===== PAGE 09 =====
Installation Checks and Initial Functional Tests

He

Final Mechanical Inspections without Control Power

4. Make a final mechanical inspection of the circuit breaker.
Verify that the contacts are in the Open position, and the
closing springs are Discharged.

2. Check the upper and lower primary studs and contact fingers
shown in Figure 7. Verify mechanical condition of finger
springs and the disconnect studs, check for loose hard-
ware, damaged or missing primary disconnect contact fingers,
and damaged disconnect sheds.

3. Coat movable primary contact fingers (Figure 7) and the
secondary disconnect contacts (Figure 23) with a light film
of Siemens Contact Lubricant No 15-171-370-002.

4. The 38-3AF vacuum circuit breaker is ready for. installation
into its assigned cubicle of the metal-clad switchgear.
Refer to removal procedures and re-install the circuit
breaker into the switchgear.

5. Refer to the Switchgear Instruction Manual for functional
tests of an installed circuit breaker.

Figure 6. Split Plug Jumper Connected to Switchgear

[1077-93 }

Figure 7. Breaker Primary Disconnects

===== PAGE 10 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Introduction

The Type 38-3AF vacuum circuit breaker is of drawout con-
struction designed for use in medium voltage, metal-clad
switchgear. The 38-3AF circuit breaker conforms to the
requirements of ANS! Standards, including C37.20.2, C37.04,
C37.06, C37.09 and C37.010.

Type 38-3AF circuit breakers consist of three vacuum inter-
rupters, a stored energy operating mechanism, necessary
electrical controls and interlock devices, disconnect devices to
connect the breaker to both primary and control power and an
operator housing. Insulating barriers are located between the
vacuum interrupters and along the sides.

This section describes the operation of each major sub-assem-
bly as an aid in the operation, installation, maintenance and
repair of the type 38-3AF vacuum circuit breaker.

; | 1060-93
Figure 8. Front View of Type 38-3AF Breaker with Panel Removed

Vacuum Interrupters

The operating principle of the type 38-3AF vacuum interrupter
is simple. Figure 9 is a cutaway view of a typical vacuum inter-
rupter. The entire assembly is sealed after a vacuum is estab-
lished. The interrupter stationary contact is connected to the
upper disconnect stud of the circuit breaker. The interrupter
movable contact is connected to the lower disconnect stud
and driving mechanism of the circuit breaker. The metal bel-
lows provides a secure seal around the movable contact, pre-
venting loss of vacuum while permitting vertical motion of the
movable contact.

31.1 Stationary contact surface

{ 4——— 32 Ceramic insulator

| 33 Arc shield

f—— 31 Stationary contact

Moving contact

VA————— 32 Ceramic insulator

34 Metal bellows

py
IN

35 Guide bushing

36.1 Movable contact stem

|

0D

Figure 9. Cutaway View of Vacuum Interrupter

When the two contacts separate, an arc is initiated which con-
tinues conduction up to the following current zero. At current
zero, the arc extinguishes and any conductive metal vapor
which has been created by and supported the arc condenses
on the contacts and on the surrounding vapor shield. Contact
materials and configuration are optimized to achieve arc
motion, resist welding, and to minimize switching disturbances.

Primary Disconnects

Figure 10 is a side view of the circuit breaker with interphase
and outer barriers removed to show details of the primary dis-
connects. Each circuit breaker has three upper and three lower
primary disconnects. Upper primary disconnects are connéct-
ed to the stationary contacts of the vacuum interrupters, and
the lower primary disconnects to the movable contacts. Each
disconnect arm has a set of multiple spring loaded fingers that
mate with bus bars in the metal-clad switchgear. The number
of fingers in the disconnect assembly varies with the continu-
ous and/or momentary rating of the circuit breaker.

There are three insulating push rods. Each push rod connects
the movable contact of one of the vacuum interrupters to the
jack shaft driven by the closing and tripping mechanism.
Flexible connectors ensure secure electrical connections
between the movable contacts of each interrupter and its bot-
tom primary disconnect.

===== PAGE 11 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

[1066-93 |

Figure 10. Upper and Lower Primary Disconnects

Phase Barriers

Figure 11 is a rear view of a type 38-3AF circuit breaker that
shows the two outer (phase to ground) insulating barriers and
the two inner (phase to phase) barriers. These four plates of
glass polyester insulating material are attached to the circuit
breaker and provide suitable electrical insulation between the
vacuum interrupter primary circuits and the housing.

Figure 11. 38-3AF Breaker with Interphase and Outer Phase
Barriers Installed

Stored Energy Operating Mechanism

The stored energy operating mechanism of the type 38-3AF
circuit breaker is an integrated arrangement of springs, sole-
noids and mechanical devices designed to provide a number
of critical functions. The energy necessary to close and open
the contacts of the vacuum interrupters is stored in powerful
tripping and closing springs. These springs are normally
charged automatically, but there are provisions for manual
charging. The operating mechanism that controls charging,
closing and tripping functions is fully trip-free, i.e., spring
charging does not automatically change the position of the pri-
mary contacts, and the closing function may be overridden by
the tripping function at any time. The operation of the stored
energy mechanism will be discussed later in this section.

The vacuum circuit breaker consists of a combination of two
sub-assemblies. The “interrupter/operator” module is a uni-
tized assembly of the three vacuum interrupters, primary insu-
lators, and operating mechanism. The second module, the
“Vehicle” is the supporting drawout structure module for the
operating mechanism. The vehicle provides primary stud
extensions, closed breaker racking interlocks, closing spring
discharge feature, and other requirements needed to ensure
safe and reliable use during racking and fully connected opera-
tions.

These two sub-assemblies will be separately described.

Interrupter/Operator Module

The interrupter/operator module consists of the three poles,
each with its vacuum interrupters and primary insulators,
mounted on the common motor or hand charged spring stored
energy operating mechanism housing. This module is shown
in Figure 12.

Construction (Refer to Figures 12 - 15)

Each of the circuit breaker poles are fixed to the rear of the
operating mechanism housing (60) by two cast-+esin insulators
(16). The insulators also connect to the upper (20) and lower (40)
pole supports which in turn support the ends of the vacuum
interrupter (30). The pole supports are aluminum castings on all
circuit breaker ratings. Primary stud extensions are attached
directly to the upper pole support (20) and lower terminal (29).

The energy-storing mechanism and all the control and actuat-
ing devices are installed in the mechanism housing (60). The
mechanism is of the spring stored energy type and is mechan-
ically and electrically trip free.

===== PAGE 12 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Figure 12. Interrupter/Operating Mechanism Module

¢ Manual Spring Charge
Port

¢ Manual Close Button

© Charge-Discharge
Indicator

¢ Manual Open Button
© Open-Close Indicator

© Operation Counter

Figure 13. Operating Mechanism Controls and Indicators
The close-open indicator (55), closing spring charge indicator

(58), and the operation counter (59) are located on the front of
the mechanism housing (60).

10

Breaker Pole (Figure 14)

The vacuum interrupter (30) is rigidly connected to the upper
termina! and pole support (20) by its terminal bolt (31.2). The
lower part of the interrupter is stabilized against lateral forces
by a centering ring (28.1) on the pole support (40). The exter-
nal forces due to switching operations and the contact pres-
sure are absorbed by the struts (28).

Current-Path Assembly (Figure 14)

The current-path assembly consists of the upper terminal and
pole support (20), the stationary contact (81}, and the moving
contact (36), which is connected with the lower terminal (29)
by terminal clamp (29.2) and a flexible shunt (29.1).

Vacuum Interrupter (Figure 9)

The moving contact (36) motion is aligned and stabilized by
guide bushing (35). The metal bellows (34) follows the travel of
the contact (36) and seals the interrupter against the surround-
ing atmosphere.

===== PAGE 13 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

205 ane
16 Cast resin insulator
31.2 NJ 20 Upper pole support
60 28 Strut
29 Lower terminal
4 q 29.1 Flexible shunt
27 — '
ieee i
th 29.2 Terminal clamp
W —— tt ~ 30 Vacuum interrupter
i 31 Stationary contact
30
28 aN 31.2 Stationary terminal bolt
: 36 Moving contact
I
@ 3 — 64.2 36.3 Eye bolt
28.1—— 1 36 40 Lower pole support
aN 16 mde) ~ 64.3 48 Insulated coupler
29,2 —~+ 48.6 Lever
29.1—J 48.9 Guide link
: . Ae : - 49 Contact pressure spring
i R oo o
36.3——] ff | I Mg > 63 60 Operating mechanism housing
Hime iM is 48 Hi
ay Loe 63.7 63 Jack shaft
29 —— re Se
tA ; 63.7 Lever
49 — 48.9 49
64.1. Pawl
48-6 48.5 64.2 Pawt
Figure 14. Section of a type 38-3AF Circuit Breaker Pole
Switching Operation (Figure 14) Operating Mechanism

When a closing command is initiated, the closing spring,
which was previously charged by hand or by the motor, actu-
ates the moving contact (36) through the jack shaft (63), lever
(63.7), insulated coupler (48), and lever (48.6).

The motion of the insulated coupler is converted into the vertical
movement of the moving contact. The moving contact motion
is controlled by guide link (48.9), which pivots on support (40)
and eye bolt (36.3).

During closing, the tripping spring and the contact pressure springs
(49) are charged and latched by pawl (64.1). The closing spring is
recharged immediately after closing.

In the closed state, the necessary contact pressure is maintained
by the contact pressure spring and atmospheric pressure. The
contact pressure spring automatically compensates for contact
erosion, which is very small.

When a tripping command is given, the energy stored in the
tripping and contact pressure springs is released by pawl
(64.2). The opening sequence is similar to the closing
sequence. The residual force of the tripping spring arrests the
moving contact (36) in the open position.

The operating mechanism is comprised of the mechanical and
electrical components required to:

1. Charge the closing springs with sufficient potential energy
to close the breaker and to store opening energy in the
tripping and contact pressure springs.

2. Means to release closing and tripping actions.

3. Means of transmitting force and motion to each of three
pole positions.

4. Operate all these functions automatically thru electrical
charging motor, cutout switches, antipump relay, release
(close and trip) solenoids, and auxiliary switches.

5. Provide indication of the breaker status (open/closed), spring
condition (charged/discharged), and number of operations.

11

===== PAGE 14 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

62.2

50.3

62.6 62.5.2

50.3.1 62.3 62.5 53

68
62 53.1
55.1
50.4 54.1
68.1
58
54
50.4.1 :
-— 64.1
62.8.1
2
55
64.3
59
60 61.8 64 | 62.8] 62.8.2 63
63.5 62.8.3 (behind 62.8)
50 Manual spring charging crank 58 Closing spring charge indicator 63 Jack shaft
50.1 Manual spring charging access hole 59 Operation counter 63.1 Lever
50.2 Charging mechanism gear box 61.8 Shock absorber 63.5 Lever
50.3.1 Driver 62 Closing spring 63.7 Lever
50.4 Spring charging motor 62.2 Crank 64 Tripping spring
50.4.1 Limit switches 62.3 Cam disc 64.1 Pawl
53 Close pushbutton 62.5 Lever 64.2 Paw!
53.1 Spring release coil 52SRC 62.5.2 Latching paw! 64.3 Lever
54 Trip pushbutton 62.6 Drive lever 64.3.1 Paw! roller
54.1 Shunt trip coil 52T 62.8 Trip free coupling rod 68 Auxiliary switch
55 Close-open indicator 62.8.1 Spring return latch 68.1 Link
55.1 Linkage 62.8.2 Trip free coupling link
56.2 Control lever 62.8.3 Trip free coupling lever
| 1273-94

Figure 15. Stored Energy Operating Mechanism

12


===== PAGE 15 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Construction

The essential parts of the operating mechanism are shown in
Figure 15. The control and sequence of operation of the
mechanism is described in Figure 17.

Indirect Releases (Tripping Coils)

The shunt releases (54.1) convert the electrical tripping pulse
into mechanical energy to release the trip latch and open the
breaker. The undervoltage release may be electrically actuated
by a make or a break contact. If a make contact is used, the
coil is shorted out, and a resistor must be used to limit the cur-
rent. The undervoltage release option mounts to the immedi-
ate right of the trip coil (54.1).

Motor Operating Mechanism

The spring charging motor (50.4) is bolted to the charging
mechanism (50.2) gear box installed in the mechanism hous-
ing. Neither the gear box mechanism nor the motor require
any maintenance.

Auxiliary Switch
The auxiliary switch (68) is actuated by the jack shaft (63) and
link (68.1).

Mode of Operation

The operating mechanism is of the stored-energy trip free
type, i.e., the charging of the spring is not automatically fol-
lowed by the contacts changing position, and the closing func-
tion may be overridden by a trip command at any time.

When the stored-energy mechanism has been charged, the
circuit breaker can be closed manually or electrically at any
desired time. The mechanical energy for carrying out an “open-
close-open” sequence for auto-reclosing duty is stored in the
closing and tripping springs.

Charging

The details of the closing spring charging mechanism are
shown in Figure 15. The charging shaft is supported in the
charging mechanism (50.2), but is not coupled mechanically
with the charging mechanism. Fitted to it are the crank (62.2)
at one end, and the cam (62.3), together with lever (62.5), at
the other.

When the charging mechanism is actuated by hand with a
hand crank or by a motor (50.4), the flange (50.3) turns until
the driver (50.3.1) locates in the cutaway part of the cam disc
(62.3), thus causing the charging shaft to follow. The crank
(62.2) charges the closing spring (62). When this has been
fully charged, the crank actuates the linkage (55.1) via control
lever (55.2) for the “closing spring charged” indicator (55), and
actuates the limit switches (50.4.1) for interrupting the motor
supply. At the same time, the lever (62.5) at the other end of
the charging shaft is securely locked by the latching pawl
(62.5.2). When the closing spring is being charged, cam disc
(62.3) follows idly, i-e., it is brought into position for closing.

Closing

If the breaker is to be closed locally, the closing spring is
released by pressing the close button (53). In the case of
remote control, the spring release coil 52SRC (53.1) unlatches
the closing spring.

As the closing spring discharges, the charging shaft is turned
by crank (62.2). The cam disc (62.3) at the other end of the
charging shaft actuates the drive lever (62.6), with the result
that jack shaft (63) is turned by lever (63.5) via the trip free
coupling rod (62.8). At the same time, the levers (63.1, 63.5,
and 63.7) fixed on the jack shaft operate the three insulated
couplers for the breaker poles. Lever (63.7) changes the open-
close indicator to closed. Lever (63.5) charges the tripping
spring (64) during closing, and the breaker is latched in the
closed position by lever (64.3) with pawl roller (64.3.1) and by
pawl (64.2). Lever (63.1) actuates the auxiliary switch through
the linkage (68.1).

The crank (62.2) on the charging shaft moves the linkage
(55.1) by acting on the contro! lever (55.2). The closing spring
charged indication is thus canceled and, the limit switches
(50.4.1) switch in the control supply to cause the closing
spring to recharge immediately.

Trip Free Operation

The trip free coupling rod (62.8) permits the immediate de-cou-
pling of the drive lever (62.6) and the jack shaft (63) to override
closing action by trip command or by means of the racking
interlocks.

The trip free coupling rod (62.8) forms a link between the drive
lever (62.6) and the jack shaft (63). The rigidity of this link
depends upon a spring return latch carried within the coupling
rod. The latch pivots within the coupling rod and is normally
positioned to ensure the rigidity of the coupling rod. Trip free
coupling link (62.8.2) and trip free coupling lever (62.8.3) cause
the spring return latch position to be dependent upon the nor-
mal tripping components and the racking interlock. Thus,
whenever a trip command is applied or the breaker is not in
the fully CONNECT or TEST position, the trip free coupling rod
is no longer rigid, effectively decoupling the drive lever and
jack shaft. Under these conditions the vacuum interrupter con-
tacts cannot be closed.

Opening

If the breaker is to be tripped locally, the tripping spring (64) is
released by pressing the trip button (54). In the case of an
electrical command being given, the shunt trip coil 52T (64.1)
unlatches the tripping spring (64).

The tripping spring turns the jack shaft (63) via lever (63.5); the
sequence being similar to that for closing.

13

===== PAGE 16 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Rapid Auto-Reclosing

Since the closing spring is automatically recharged by the
motor operating mechanism when the breaker has closed, the
operating mechanism is capable of an open-close-open duty
cycle as required for rapid auto-reclosing.

Manual Operation
Electrically operated vacuum circuit breakers can be operated
manually if the contro! supply should fail.

Manually Charging the Closing Spring (Figure 16).

insert the hand crank (50) in hole (50.1) and turn it clockwise
(about 45 revolutions) until the indicator (55) shows
“Charged”. The hand crank is coupled with the charging
mechanism via an over-running coupling; thus the operator is
not exposed to any risk should the control supply recover dur-
ing charging. ,

14

Figure 16.

wee Na EAS

Use of Manual Spring Charging Crank


===== PAGE 17 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

{ Control voltage applied »

|
Undervoltage Spring Charging
Device 27* Motor 88
Picks Up Energized

Closing Spring
Fully Charged

—

¥

Closing

i]

LS21 and LS22 LS3 opens in LS41 closes to
open series with anti- signal closing
To de-energize pump relay 52Y springs charged
spring charging
motor 88
------------- }-----2+--------------
"1 No action! Spring release
' Open 52b in . Breaker solenoid actuated
, | Series with spring Closing thru the closed
1 | release solenoid command 52b contact and
t | (52SRC) blocks | Breaker Breaker} two NC contacts
1 | spring release losed Closin open of relay 52Y
' not charged v
Ly
' No action! The closing The tripping
' Relay 52Y picks spring is spring is charged
' up thru closed unlatched
' LS3 contact and
' opens
Ly
'
1
1
'
4
1
'

Therefore, when the
breaker is closed both
its springs are charged
(The closing spring
charges the tripping
spring during closing).
As a result, the breaker
is capable of an O+-CO
operating cycle (dead
time “t' = less than 0.3s)

The dashed line shows
the operating sequence
initiated by the closing
command.

* Optional items

(

Anti-pumping feature (Device 52Y)}

Care must be taken to see that a continuously
applied closing command does not cause

the breaker to reclose after it has tripped out on a
fault, otherwise it may sustain damage by the
‘pumping’ effect

( Continuous closing command )

=

Spring Release Coil 52SRC,unlatches closing
spring and breaker closes

v

Motor cutoff switched LS21, LS22 and LS3 are
closed because closing spring is discharged

=

Before the spring charge motor 88 has
recharged the closing spring and opened LS3,
anti-pump relay 52Y picks up and seals in

v

The anti-pump relay 52Y opens two contacts in
series with the Spring Release Coil 52SRC

vv

The spring release solenoid is now blocked
and can not be activated until springs are fully
charged and close command is removed

52a contacts in Breaker auxiliary The circuit Contacts LS21 and
series with the switches 52a breaker closes LS22 close to
tripping solenoid (NO) and 52b energize motor 88.
close to enable af] (NC) change [ PPP s3 closes & LS4
trip operation state opens to cancel |,
closing spring signal }
Vo e8eoTe eee cee eee I
Rapid auto-reclosing
The closing spring is Tripping
recharged automatically
as described above.

Trip Command

)

v

Y

can only be

series connected
52a contact is
closed.

Shunt Trip Coil 52T

activated when the

Undervoltage device 27 is
activated by opening a NC contact
in series with 27 or by loss or
reduction of tripping voltage *

Undervoltage device 27 is activated
by closing NO contact, shorting the
27 coil. The NO contact is connected
across 27 by 52a contact thus the
NO contact is only effective with
breaker closed *

Secondary release
dual trip function
Activated by remote
trip command
contact NO *

i]

Shunt Trip Coil 52T

Y

Undervoltage device (27) *

Secondary release*

unlatches the unlatches the tripping spring unlatches the
tripping spring tripping spring
i es |

| Circuit breaker trips

Figure 17. Operator Sequential Operation Diagram

15

===== PAGE 18 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Elementary Diagram

D.C. SUPPLY

Standard: Fuses in close circuit
Slugs in trip circuit (fuses optional)

Shown with springs discharged, trip latch reset, breaker open and located in test , connect, or withdrawn position.

Symbol List

88 Spring Charging Motor

52SRC_ Spring Release Coil (Closed)

52Y Closing Relay (Anti-Pump)

52T Shunt Trip Coil

LS Spring Charged Switch

MI Mechanical interlock

52a Aux. Sw. Open When Brk. is Open
52b Aux. Sw. Closed When Brk. Is Open

R Red Indicating Light (Closed) Typical
G Green Indicating Light (Trip) -t— Remote
Ww White Indicating Light (Spring Charged) Devices

Ole Control Switch (Closed)
OWT Control Switch (Trip)

S20 S20 520 520

Figure 18. Typical Elementary Diagram

Manual Closing

To close the breaker, press the close button (53). The close-
open indicator (55) will then display “Closed” and the closing
spring condition indicator (58) will now read “Discharged”.

Manual Opening

The tripping spring is charged during closing. To open the
breaker, press the trip button (54) and “Open” will be dis-
played by indicator (55).

Indirect Releases (Dual Trip or Undervoltage) (optional)
The indirect release provides for the conversion of modest
control signals into powerful mechanical energy impulses. It is
primarily used to trip medium voltage circuit breakers while
functioning as a secondary (dual trip) release or undervoltage
release device.

These releases are mechanical energy storage devices. Their
internal springs are charged as a consequence of the breaker
mechanism operation, This energy is released upon applica-
tion or removal (as appropriate) of applicable control voltages.
Refer to Figures 19-21.

Secondary (Shunt) Release (optional)

A secondary shunt release (extra trip coil) is used for electrical
tripping of the circuit breaker by protective relays or manual con-
trol devices when more than one trip coil is required. The second
trip coil is generally connected to a separate auxiliary supply (DC
or AC) from the control supply used for the normal trip coil.

16

Undervoltage Release (optional)

The undervoltage release is used for continuous monitoring of
the tripping supply voltage. If this supply voltage falls exces-
sively, the undervoltage release will provide for automatic trip-
ping of the breaker.

The undervoltage device may be used for manual or relay trip-
ping by employing a contact in series with undervoltage device
holding coil. Relay tripping may also be achieved by employ-
ing a normally open contact in parallel with the holding coil. It
this scheme is used, a resistor must be provided to limit cur-
rent when the normally open contact is closed.

Secondary and undervoltage releases are available for all stan-
dard ANS} control voltages.

Construction and Mode of Operation of Secondary
Release and Undervoltage Release (See Figures 19-21)

The release consists of a spring-power storing mechanism, a
latching device, and an electromagnet. These elements are
accommodated side by side in a housing (3), with a detachable
cover and three through holes (5) for fastening screws. The
supply leads for the trip coil are connected to a terminal block
(33).

The energy-storing mechanism consists of the striker pin (23)
and its operating spring (31), which is mostly located inside
the striker pin (23). When the spring is compressed, the striker
pin is held by a latch (25), whose sloping face is forced against

===== PAGE 19 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

the appropriately shaped striker pin (23) by spring (27). The
other end of the latch (25) is supported by a partly milled lock-
ing pin (21) (see Figure 20), which pivots in the cover sheets
of the magnet armature (9). The armature (9) pivots in front of
the poles of the U-shaped magnet core (1), and is pulled away
from it by the tension spring (11).

lf the magnet coil (7) of the shunt release 3AX1101 is ener-
gized by a trip signal, or if the tripping pin (15) is mechanically
actuated, magnet armature (9) is swung against the pole
faces. When this happens, the latch (25) loses its support and
releases the striker pin (23), which is forced out by the spring
(31).

On the undervoltage release 3AX1108, the latch (25) is held by
the locking pin (21) as long as the armature (9) is attracted
(energized) (See Figure 21). If the circuit of the magnet coil (7)
is interrupted, the armature (9) drops off, thus causing the
latch (25) to lose its support and release the striker pin (23).

Following every tripping operation, the striker pin (23) must be
reset to its normal position by loading the spring (81). This
takes place automatically via the operating mechanism of the
circuit breaker.

Since the striker pin of the undervoltage release 3AX1103 is
latched only when the armature is attracted, this trip is provid-
ed with a screw (29) (see Figure 21). This screw is provided to
allow locking the striker pin (23) in the normal position for
adjusting purposes or for carrying out trial operations during
breaker servicing. Position A (locked) disables the undervolt-
age release. Position B is the normal (operating) position.

1 Magnet core 15 Tripping pin

3 Housing 21 Locking pin

5 Mounting holes (3) 23 Striker pin

7 Magnet coil 25 Latch

9 Magnet armature 27° Spring

11. Tension spring 31. Striker pin spring
13 Adjusting screw for 11 33 Terminal block

| 1294-94

Figure 19. Construction of Shunt Release (shown released)

23

Block/Operate Selection Screw
(Undervoltage Release Only)

25 27
moi
ro |
rN
21

Figure 20. Latch Details (shown charged)

Locked

Position A:

23 A

23 Striker pin

29 Screw 29
Position B 93 At A
Unlocked B
(Operating Position) N\

29

Cancel The Lock For Undervoltage Release By
Shifting Locking Screw (29) From A To B

Figure 21. Undervoltage Block/Operate Selection

Capacitor
Trip Device

Connection |
For Source
Voltage:

Figure 22

. Capacitor Trip Device

17

===== PAGE 20 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Capacitor Trip Device

The capacitor trip device is an auxiliary tripping option provid-
ing a short term means of storing adequate electrical energy
to ensure breaker tripping.

This device is applied in breaker installations lacking indepen-
dent auxiliary control power or a station battery. In such instal
lations, control power is usually derived from the primary
source. In the event of a primary source fault, or disturbance
with resulting reduction of the primary source voltage, the
capacitor trip device will provide short term tripping energy for
breaker opening due to relay operation.

The capacitor trip includes a rectifier to convert the 120 or 240
VAC control voltage to a DC voltage which is used to charge a
large capacitor to the peak of the converted wave. See Figure 22.

Shock Absorber

Type 38-3AF circuit breakers are equipped with a sealed, oil-
filled, viscous damper, or shock absorber (61.8) Figure 15. The
purpose of this shock absorber is to limit overtrave! and
rebound of the vacuum interrupters movable contacts during
the conclusion of an opening operation. The shock absorber
action affects only the end of an opening operation.

Secondary Disconnect

Signal and control power is delivered to the internal circuits of
the breaker by an arrangement of movable contact fingers
mounted on the top of the circuit breaker. These fingers are
shown in Figure 23.

When the circuit breaker is racked into the TEST or CONNECT
positions in the metal-clad switchgear, these disconnect fin-
gers engage a mating disconnect block on the inside of the
switchgear shown in Figure 24. These electrical connections
automatically disengage when the circuit breaker is racked
from the TEST to the DISCONNECT position.

All of the control power necessary to operate the circuit break-
er is connected to this disconnect block inside the switchgear.
The external trip and close circuits and status indicators are
also connected to the same disconnect block.

Figure 23. Secondary Disconnects on Circuit Breaker

18

Figure 24. Secondary Disconnect Inside Switchgear

Auxiliary Switch

Figure 25 shows the breaker mounted auxiliary switch. This
switch provides auxiliary contacts for control of circuit breaker
closing and tripping functions. Contacts are available for use in
relaying and external logic circuits. This switch is driven by
linkages connected to the jack shaft. The auxiliary switch con-
tains both ‘b’ (Normally Closed) and ‘a’ (Normally Open) con-
tacts. When the circuit breaker is open, the ‘b’ switches are
closed and the ‘a’ switches are open.

MOC (Mechanism Operated Cell) Switch

Figures 26 and 27 show the principal components that pro-
vide optional control flexibility when operating the circuit
breaker in the TEST and CONNECT positions.

Figure 26 shows the MOC switch operating arm that projects
from the right side of the circuit breaker, just above the bot-
tom rail structure. The MOC switch operating arm is part of
the jack shaft assembly and directly reflects the open or
closed position of the breaker primary contacts.

As the circuit breaker is racked into the appropriate position
inside the switchgear, the MOC switch operating arm passes
a wiring protective cover plate, and engages the pantograph
linkage shown in Figure 27. Operation of the circuit breaker
causes the pantograph linkage to transfer motion to the MOC
switches located above the pantograph. The ‘a’ and ‘b’ con-
tacts can be used in relaying and control logic schemes.

All circuit breakers contain the MOC switch operating arm.
However, MOC switches are provided in the switchgear only
when specified.

The breaker engages the MOC auxiliary switch only in the
CONNECT (operating) position unless an optional TEST post
tion pickup is specified in the contract. If a TEST position pick-
up is included, the breaker will engage the auxiliary switch in
both positions. Up to 24 stages may be provided.

===== PAGE 21 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

TOC (Truck Operated Cell) Switch

Figure 27 shows the optional TOC cell switch. This switch is
operated by the circuit breaker as it is racked into the CON-
NECT position.

Various combinations of ‘a’ and ‘b’ contacts may be optionally
specified. These switches provide control and logic indication
that a breaker in the cell has achieved the CONNECT (ready to
operate) position.

Figure 25. Auxiliary Switch

Figure 26. MOC Switch Operating Arm on Circuit Breaker

vse ys

”

at Oh 0? OOO Bie

Ss

Figure 27. MOC and TOC Switches Inside Switchgear

Trip Free Interlock

Figure 28 shows the devices providing the trip-free interlock
function. The purpose of the trip-free interlock is to hold the
circuit breaker operating mechanism mechanically and electri-
cally trip free. The breaker is held trip free during racking and
whenever the breaker is between the TEST and CONNECT
positions within the switchgear enclosure. This interlock
ensures that the circuit breaker primary contacts can only be
closed when in the CONNECT position, or the TEST position,
or out of the switchgear cell.

Rating Interlock

Figure 28 shows the rating interlock interference plates
mounted on the circuit breaker frame. The breaker interfer-
ence plates are complemented by matching plates located in
the cubicle.

The interference plates (rating interlocks) test the breaker volt-
age, continuous current, interrupting and momentary ratings
and will not allow breaker insertion unless they match or
exceed the cell rating.

Circuit Breaker Frame

The frame of the type 38-3AF circuit breaker contains several
important devices and features deserving of special attention.
These are the ground disconnect, the four racking wheels and
four handling wheels.

19

===== PAGE 22 =====
Interrupter/Operator Description

Ground Disconnect

Figure 28 shows the ground disconnect contact mounted at
the bottom of the circuit breaker. The spring loaded fingers of
the disconnect contact engage the ground bar (Figure 29) at
the bottom of the switchgear assembly. The ground bar is to
the right of the racking mechanism, shown at the bottom cen-
ter of the switchgear.

Circuit Breaker Handling Wheels

The type 38-3AF circuit breaker is designed for easy move-
ment into and out of the metal-clad switchgear assembly. A
section of indoor or Shelter-Clad switchgear does not require a
transfer

truck or lifting truck for handling of the breaker when all circuit
breakers are located at floor level. Once the circuit breaker is
racked out of the switchgear, the unit can be pulled using the
handles on the front of the breaker. The breaker will roll on its
bottom four wheels.

When circuit breakers are located above floor level, handling of
the circuit breakers requires the use of a hoist or crane.

Racking Mechanism

Figure 29 shows the racking mechanism in the switchgear
used to move the circuit breaker between the DISCONNECT,
TEST and CONNECT positions. This mechanism contains a set
of interface blocks that mate with the bottom of the circuit
breaker housing, and Jock the breaker to the racking mecha-
nism during in and out movement. A racking handle (not
shown) mates with the threaded shaft of the racking mecha-
nism. Clockwise rotation of the crank moves the breaker into
the switchgear; and counterclockwise rotation removes it.

The racking and trip free interlocks provide several essential
functions.

1. They prevent racking a closed breaker into or out of the
switchgear assembly.

2. They discharge the closing springs whenever the circuit
breaker is inserted into, or withdrawn from, the
switchgear.

3. They prevent closing of the circuit breaker unless it is in
either the TEST or CONNECT positions.

The rating interlock prevents insertion of a lower rated circuit
breaker into a cubicle intended for a breaker of higher ratings.

20

Rating
interlock

Spring dump
interlock

Trip free interlock

Closed breaker racking interlock

Racking shaft Ground bar

Breaker release
latch

[1087-93 |

Figure 29. Racking Mechanism and Floor Interlocks

===== PAGE 23 =====
Vehicle Description

Vehicle Function and Operational Interlocks

Type 38-3AF vacuum circuit breakers are comprised mainly of
the interrupter/operator module fitted to a vehicle. This inter-
rupter/operator module is an integral arrangement of operating
mechanism, dielectric system, vacuum interrupters, and
means of connecting the primary circuit. The vehicle supports
the interrupter/operator module, providing mobility and fully
coordinated application in Siemens type GM38 switchgear.

Successful coordinated application of the fully assembled type
38-3AF vacuum breaker is achieved thru precise alignment in
fixtures during manufacture, and important functional interlocking.

Alignment

All aspects of the circuit breaker structure which impact align-
ment and interchangeability are checked using master fixtures
at the factory. Field adjustment will not normally be required.

Interlocks
ADANGER
Hazardous voltages and high-speed moving

parts.

Will cause death, personal injury, and property
damage.

Do not by-pass interlocks or otherwise make inter-
locks inoperative. Interlocks must be in operation at
all times.

Read this instruction manual. Know and understand
correct interlock function. Check interlock function
prior to inserting breaker into switchgear cubicle.

Breaker Racking Interlocks

The interrupter/operator module and the vehicle portions of
the circuit breaker, and the racking mechanism in the
switchgear all cooperate to provide important operational inter-
locking functions.

1. Rating Interlock

‘The rating interlock consisting of a coded interference
plate is mounted on the vehicle as shown in Figure 28. A
mating interference blocking plate is mounted in the dra-
wout compartment as seen in Figure 29. The two plates
are mounted in alignment and must pass through each
other in order for the breaker vehicle to enter the drawout
compartment. The interlock is coded to test rated voltage,
as well as interrupting, close & latch, and continuous cur-
rent ratings. The circuit breaker must equal or exceed all of
the cubicle ratings in order to enter the compartment.

2. Racking interlocks

a. Closed Breaker Interlock - Figure 28 shows the loca-
tion of the closed breaker interlock plunger on the circuit
breaker frame. The purpose of this interlock is to post
tively block breaker racking operations whenever the
breaker is closed. The plunger is coupled to the jack
shaft (Figure 15, 63). When the jack shaft rotates 60
degrees to close, the interlock plunger is driven straight
downward beneath the frame of the breaker.

The downward projecting plunger blocks racking oper-
ation when the breaker is closed. Figure 29 shows
the racking mechanism located on the floor in the
center of the breaker compartment. On the left side
of the racking mechanism, two “wing-like” elements
project. The closed breaker interlock plunger, when
down (breaker closed), falls behind the front wing in
the TEST position and behind the rear wing in the
CONNECT position.

The wings are coupled to the element of the racking
mechanism which shrouds the racking screw. This
shroud must be moved rearward to insert the racking
crank socket in order to engage the racking shaft.
With the plunger down (breaker closed), the wings
and shroud cannot be moved and thus racking is
blocked.

4 Spring Dump
Tube

Trip Free Mechanical
Interlock Switch

6 Trip Free
interlock

5 Spring Dump
Interlock

gel 1284-94

Figure 30. Interlock Mechanisms on 38-3AF Circuit Breaker

b. Trip Free Interlock - Figure 28 shows the trip free
racking interlock, a plunger with a roller on the lower
end. It has spring return to the reset or lowest posi-
tion. The plunger roller tracks the shape of the racking
cam on the racking mechanism in the switchgear.

The racking cam allows the trip free racking interlock
to be in the lowest position (reset) only when the cir-
cuit breaker is in the TEST or the CONNECT position.
Thus, during racking, the trip free interlock is held In
an elevated condition except when the breaker reach-
es the TEST or the CONNECT position. The circuit
breaker can be closed only when the interlock plunger
is down, and will trip if the plunger is moved up.

The operation of the trip free racking interlock may be
seen in Figure 30. As the interlock (6) rises, it moves
a series of linkages, which cause a guided tube (4) to
rise, and enter the operating mechanism enclosure.

21

===== PAGE 24 =====
_ Vehicle Description

a

Figure 31 shows the operating mechanism detail
components which establish a trip free condition as
the tube (4) rises. The rising tube raises a lever
attached to the base of the operating mechanism
enclosure. This lever raises the trip free pushrod.
The rising trip free pushrod elevates the trip free
pushrod cam, which pushes the trip free coupling
lever (62.8.3) (Figure 15) toward the rear of the enclo-
sure.

The movement of the trip free coupling lever toward
the rear of the enclosure is transmitted through the
trip free coupling link (62.8.2) to the spring return latch
(62.8.1). With the latch displaced from a normal reset
position, the trip free coupling rod (62.8) is incapable
of applying closing effort to the jack shaft (63). Thus,
upon release, the closing spring energy will not be
transmitted to the jack shaft.

Trip Latch

. ny ——— Normal Operating Position
Trip Pushrod__ [viii 7s
Cam i
Lever A
: Trip Free Pushrod
!
\
--- ro Interlock Levers
i
i
|
© }
= 5 a
23 Ny
RCO 1
Oc .
ou }
I

Close Latch Lever Ht
HI
1 \

L.-~ Closing Spring
Release Cam

Retaining Ring a “4 Cit

Spring Dump Tube (4)

Figure 31. Closed Breaker Interlock Mechanisms in Stored
Energy Mechanism

22

Automatic Closing Spring Energy Release

The automatic closing spring energy release (spring dump)
(Figure 28) is a plunger with a roller on the lower end. The
spring dump has a return spring which returns the spring
dump to the reset or lowered position. The plunger roller
tracks the shape of the spring discharge cam on the rack-
ing mechanism in the switchgear (Figure 29).

The spring dump cam raises the spring dump interlock
upon insertion of the breaker into the compartment, or
upon withdrawal from the compartment. The interlock is
raised at about the time the front wheels pass over the
cubicle sill. It allows the spring dump interlock to be in the
reset (lowest) position at all other times.

The operation of the spring dump interlock may be seen in
Figure 30. As the interlock rises (5), it causes the guided
tube (4) to rise and enter the operating mechanism enclosure.

Figure 31 shows the operating mechanism detail compo-
nents which establish a spring dump condition as the tube
rises. The rising tube raises a lever attached to the base of
the operating mechanism enclosure. This lever raises the
trip free pushrod, which elevates the closing spring
release cam. The closing spring release cam moves the
closing spring latch, which causes the closing springs to
discharge. However, the trip free interlock is raised, so
that the operating mechanism is held trip free (see trip
free interlock discussion). Thus, the energy in the closing
springs is released (spring dump), without movement of
the jackshaft or the vacuum interrupter contacts.

Trip Free Interlock Position Mechanical Interlock

In order to prevent the motor charging circuit from “making
and breaking” as the breaker and cubicle secondaries
make or break physical contact, an electrical switch is pro-
vided. This switch is mounted as shown in Figure 30. This
switch is mounted in the line of action taken by the trip
free interlock plunger, which follows the racking mecha-
nism cam, and is elevated at all times while the breaker is
in the drawout compartment, except when in the TEST or
CONNECT positions. A striker plate, integral with the trip
free interlock plunger, engages and operates (opens) the
switch when the plunger is in an elevated position block-
ing spring charging motor operation. The switch is closed
when the breaker occupies the TEST or CONNECT posi-
tion, allowing the charging motor to operate automatically.

===== PAGE 25 =====
Maintenance

a ae

Introduction and Maintenance Intervals
Periodic inspections and maintenance are essential to obtain
safe and reliable operation of the type 38-3AF circuit breaker.

When type 38-3AF circuit breakers are operated under “Usual
Service Conditions”, maintenance and lubrication is recom-
mended at five year intervals or at the number of operations
indicated in Table 2. “Usual” and “Unusual” service condi-
tions for Medium Voltage Metal-Clad Switchgear are defined
in ANSI C37.20.1, sections 3 and 7.1. Generally, “usual service
conditions” are defined as an environment in which the equip-
ment is not exposed to excessive dust, acid fumes, damaging
chemicals, salt air, rapid or frequent changes in temperature,
vibration, high humidity, and extremes of temperature.

The definition of “usual service conditions” is subject to a variety
of interpretations. Because of this, you are best served by adjust-
ing maintenance and lubrication intervals based on your experi-
ence with the equipment in the actual service environment.

Regardless of the length of the maintenance and lubrication
interval, Siemens recommends that circuit breakers should be
inspected and exercised annually.

ADANGER

Hazardous voltages and high-speed moving parts.

Will cause death, personal injury, and property
damage.

Read instruction manuals, observe safety instruc-
tions, and limit use to qualified personnel.

For the safety of maintenance personnel as well as others
who might be exposed to hazards associated with mainte-
nance activities, the safety related work practices of NFPA
70E, parts l1 and Ill, should always be followed when working
on electrical equipment. Maintenance personnel should be
trained in the safety practices, procedures and requirements
that pertain to their respective job assignments. This manual
should be reviewed and retained in a location readily accessi-
ble for reference during maintenance of this equipment.

The user must establish a periodic maintenance program to
ensure trouble-free and safe operation. The frequency of
inspection, periodic cleaning, and preventive maintenance
schedule will depend upon the operation conditions. NFPA
Publication 70B, “Electrical Equipment Maintenance” may be
used as a guide to establish such a program. A preventive
maintenance program is not intended to cover recondi-
tioning or major repair, but should be designed to reveal,
if possible, the need for such actions in time to prevent
malfunctions during operation.

Recommended Hand Tools

Type 38-3AF breakers use both standard American and metric
fasteners. Metric fasteners are used for the vacuum inter-
rupters and in the interrupter/operator module. American fas-
teners are used in most other locations. This list of hand tools
describes those normally used in disassembly and re-assem-
bly procedures.

Metric

e Sockets and open end wrenches: 7, 8, 10, 13, 16, 18, 19,
and 24mm

¢ Hex keys: 2, 5, 6, 8 and 10mm

e Deep Sockets: 19 and 24mm

© Torque Wrench: 0-150 Nm (0-100 ft-lbs.)

American

* Socket and Open-End Wrenches: 5/16, 3/8, 7/16, 1/2, 9/16,
11/16, 3/4, and 7/8 in.

Hex Keys: 3/16 and 1/4 in.

Screwdrivers: 0.032 x 1/4 in. wide and 0.55 x 7/16 in. wide

Pliers

Light Hammer

Dental Mirror

Flashlight

Drift Pins: 1/8, 3/16, and 1/4 in.

Retaining Ring Plier (external type, tip diameter 0.040 in.)

Recommended Maintenance and Lubrication

Periodic maintenance and lubrication should include all the
tasks shown in Table 1. Recommended procedures for each
of the listed tasks are provided in this section of the manual.

AWARNING .

Failure to maintain the equipment will result in death, serious
injury or product failure, and can prevent successful functioning
of connected apparatus.

The instructions contained herein should be carefully reviewed, under-
stood, and followed.

The maintenance tasks in Table 1 must be performed regularly.

© Checks of the primary power path
e Cleanliness check
* Inspection of primary disconnects
¢ Checks of the stored energy operator mechanism
e Maintenance and lubrication
e Fastener check
© Manual spring charging check
© Contact erosion check
e Electrical control checks
¢ Wiring and terminals check
¢ Secondary disconnect check
* Automatic spring charging check
¢ Electrical close and trip check
Vacuum integrity check
High potential test
Insulation test
Contact resistance test
Inspection and cleaning of breaker insulation
Functional tests

eoeee?@

Table 1: Maintenance Tasks

The list of tasks in Table 1 does not represent an exhaustive
survey of maintenance steps necessary to ensure safe opera-
tion of the equipment. Particular applications may require fur-
ther procedures. Should further information be desired or
should particular problems arise which are not covered suffi-
ciently for the Purchaser's purposes, the matter should be

referred to the local Siemens sales office 5
3

===== PAGE 26 =====
Maintenance

ADANGER

The use of unauthorized parts in the repair of the equipment, or
tampering by unqualified personne! will result in dangerous condi-
tions which will cause death, serious injury or equipment damage.
Follow all safety instructions contained herein.

Removal from Switchgear

Prior to performing any inspection or maintenance checks or
tests, the circuit breaker must be removed from the
switchgear. The Installation and Initial Functional Tests section
describes the removal procedure in detail. Principal steps are
repeated here for information and guidance, but without the
details of the preceding section.

1. The first step is to de-energize the circuit breaker. Figure
32 illustrates the location of the trip control on the circuit
breaker operator panel. Depressing the Trip pushbutton
opens the breaker prior to removal from the switchgear.

2. The second step in the removal procedure is to de-ener-
gize control power to the circuit breaker. Open the control
power disconnect device.

3. Rack the breaker to the DISCONNECT position.

4. Perform the spring discharge check. This is done by first
depressing the red Trip pushbutton. Second, depress the
back Close pushbutton. Third, depress the red Trip push-
button again, and observe the spring condition indicator. It
should read Discharge. Figure 32 shows the breaker
spring condition indicator in the Discharged position.

erect ee

Figure 32. Manual Tripping of Circuit Breaker

24

Figure 33. 38-3AF Breaker Showing Vacuum Interrupters and
Primary Disconnects (Barriers removed)

5. Remove the breaker from the switchgear. Refer to the
preceding installation section of this manual for special
instructions and precautions regarding removal of a break-
er which is not at floor level.

6. The breaker can be located either on the floor or on a pal
fet. Each breaker has four wheels and handles to allow
one person to maneuver the unit on a level surface with-
out assistance.

Checks of the Primary Power Path

The primary power path consists of the three vacuum inter-
rupters, the three upper and the three lower primary discon-
nects. These components are checked for cleanliness and
condition. The vacuum interrupters are also checked for vacu-
um integrity.

Some test engineers prefer to perform the contact erosion
check during the manual spring charging check of the opera-
tor, since charging of the springs is necessary to place the
contacts in the closed position. Also, the vacuum integrity
check is usually performed in conjunction with the High
Potential tests.

These instructions follow the recommendation that these tests
(contact erosion/manual spring charging check, and vacuum
integrity/high potential tests) will be combined as described.

Cleanliness Check

Figure 33 is a side view of the 38-3AF circuit breaker with the
insulating barriers removed to show the vacuum interrupter,
and the upper and lower primary disconnects.

All of these components must be cleaned and free of dirt or
any foreign objects. Use a dry lint-free cloth. For stubborn dirt,
use a clean cloth saturated with denatured alcohol.

===== PAGE 27 =====
Maintenance

eel

Inspection of Primary Disconnects

Figure 34 shows the primary disconnect contact fingers engaged.
When the contacts are mated with the switchgear’s primary stud
assembly, there is forceful contact distributed over a wide area.
This maintains low current flow per individual contact finger.

Inspect the contact fingers for any evidence of burning or pitting
that would indicate weakness of the contact finger springs.

Inspect the primary disconnect arms for physical integrity and
absence of mechanical damage.

Inspect the flexible connectors that connect the bottom mov-
able contacts of the vacuum interrupters to the lower primary
disconnect arms for tightness and absence of mechanical
damage, burning, or pitting.

Using a clean cloth saturated with denatured alcohol, clean old
lubricant from primary disconnects, and apply a very thin layer
of Siemens contact lubricant (reference 15-171-370-002).

Figure 34. Primary Disconnect in Mated Position

Checks of the Stored Energy Operator Mechanism

The stored energy operator checks are divided into mechanical
and electrical checks for simplicity and better organization.
This first series of checks determine if the basic mechanism is
clean, lubricated and operates smoothly without control
power. The contact erosion check of the vacuum interrupter is
also performed during these tasks.

Maintenance and Lubrication

Breaker Type Number of
Years/Closing Operations
38-3AF 5 years/1000 operations

Table 2: Maintenance and Lubrication Intervals (ANSI
C37.06 Table 8 - Usual Service Conditions) Maintenance
Based Upon Number of Breaker Closing Operations

The interrupter operator mechanism is shown in Figure 35
with the front cover and the operator control panel removed to
show construction details. Both the tripping spring and the
closing spring are shown. The movable end of the closing
spring is connected to a crank arm. The movable end of the
opening spring is connected to the jack shaft by a pull rod.

Clean the entire stored energy operator mechanism with a dry,
lint-free cloth.

Check all components for evidence of excessive wear. Place
special attention upon the closing spring crank and the various
pushrods and linkages.

(each phase}

A Anderol 732
(1 Beacon 325 or Supermil A-72832

[1273-94|

Figure 35. Front View of Operator Mechanism

Lubricate all non-electrical moving or sliding surfaces with a
light coat of synthetic grease or oil. Lubricants composed of
diester oils and fithium thickeners will be compatible.

Shell (drawn cup) needle bearings:
Use either Beacon (Exxon) 325 (reference 18-658-676-422
and part number 15-337-131-001) or Supermil (Amoco) A-
72832 (reference 18-758-676-423), or Anderol 732.

Pivots, sliding, and/or rolling surfaces and general lubrication:
Use Anderol 732 aerosol synthetic fluid grease (reference
part number 15-172-816-058).

Primary disconnect contacts (multifingered clusters) and sec-
ondary disconnect contacts (strips and fingers) are to be wiped
clean, and a film of Siemens contact lubricant (15-171-370-002)
applied. Avoid getting contact lubricant on any insulating materials.

Fastener Check

Inspect all fasteners for tightness. Both lock-nuts and retaining
rings are used. Replace any fasteners that appear to have
been frequently removed and replaced.

Manual Spring Charging and Contact Erosion Checks
Perform the Manual Spring Charging Check contained in the
section describing the Installation Check and Initial Functional
Tests. The key steps of this procedure are repeated here.

1. Insert the hand charging crank into the manual charge
socket at the front of the operator contro! panel. Turn the
crank clockwise (about 45 revolutions) to charge the clos-
ing springs. Continue cranking until the Charged flag
appears in the window of the spring indicator.

25

===== PAGE 28 =====
Maintenance

2. Press the Close (black) pushbutton. The contact position
indicator on the operator control panel should indicate that
the breaker contacts are closed.

1275-94 |

Peers ca

Figure 36. Contact Erosion Check Mark

3. Perform the contact erosion check. Contact erosion occurs
when high fault currents are interrupted or when the vacuum
interrupter is nearing the limit of its contact life. Determination
of acceptable contact condition is checked by the visibility
of the white erosion mark shown in Figure 36. The white
erosion mark is located in the keyway (or slot) on the movable
stem of the vacuum interrupter, near the plastic guide bushing.

The contact erosion check procedure is:

a. Be sure the breaker primary contacts are Closed.

b. Observe the white erosion mark (Figure 36) of each
pole. When this mark is visible, contact wear is within
acceptable limits.

AWARNING

High Speed Moving Parts.

Can cause serious injury.

KS

Tripping spring is charged. If trip latch is moved,
the stored energy springs will discharge rapidly.

Observe precautions concerning physical con-
tact with components of the circuit breaker
subjected to sudden, high speed movement.

4. Press the red Trip pushbutton after completing the contact
erosion check. Visually verify the Discharge condition of the
closing springs and that the circuit preaker contacts are Open.

5. Press the black Close pushbutton. Nothing should happen.

The manual spring check should demonstrate smooth
operation of the operating mechanism.

26

Electrical Control Checks

The electrical controls of the type 38-3AF circuit breaker
should be checked during inspections to verify absence of any
mechanical damage, and proper operation of the automatic
spring charging, Close, and Trip circuits.

Unless otherwise noted, all of these tests are performed
without any control power applied to the circuit breaker.

Check of the Wiring and Terminals
1. Physically check all of the breaker wiring for evidence of
abrasion, cuts, burning or mechanical damage.

2. Check all terminals to be certain they are solidly attached
to their respective device.

Check of the Secondary Disconnect

In addition to checking the terminals of the secondary discon-
nect, the secondary contact fingers need to be free to move
without binding. Depress each finger, confirm presence of
spring force (contact pressure), and verify freedom of motion.

AWARNING
Hazardous voltages and high-speed mechanical

parts.

Will cause death, severe personal injury, and prop-
erty damage.

Read instruction manuals, observe safety instruc-
tions, and limit use to qualified personnel.

Automatic Spring Charging Check (Control Power Required)
Repeat the automatic spring charging check described in the
section entitled Installation Checks and Initial Functional Tests.

Primary tasks of this check are:
1. The breaker is energized with control power for this check.
2. De-energize the source of control power.

3. Install the breaker end of the split plug jumper over the
secondary disconnect of the circuit breaker. The split plug
jumper has one male and one female connector and can-
not be installed incorrectly (Figure 5).

4. Install the switchgear end of the plug jumper over the sec-
ondary disconnect block inside the switchgear (Figure 6).

5. Energize the control power source.

6. When control power is connected to the circuit breaker,
the closing springs should automatically charge. Visually
verify that the closing springs are charged.

Note: A temporary source of control power and test leads
may be required if the control power source has not been
connected to the switchgear. When control power is con-
nected to the type 38-3AF circuit breaker, the closing
springs should automatically charge.

===== PAGE 29 =====
Maintenance

Electrical Close and Trip Check (Control Power Required)
A check of the breaker control circuits is performed while the
unit is still connected to the switchgear by the plug jumper.
This check is made with the breaker energized by control
power from the switchgear.

1. Once the breaker springs are charged, move the
switchgear Close/Trip switch to the Close position. There
should be both the sound of the breaker closing and indi-
cation that the breaker contacts are closed by the main
contact status indicator.

2. As soon as the breaker has closed, the automatic spring
charging process is repeated. ~

3. After a satisfactory close operation is verified, move the
switchgear Close/Trip switch to’ the Trip position. Verify by
both sound and contact position that the contacts are open.
Completion of these checks demonstrates satisfactory
operation of auxiliary switches, internal relays and solenoids.

Checks of the Spring Charging Motor
No additional checks of the spring charging motor are necessary.

Vacuum Interrupters
The life expectancy of vacuum interrupters is a function of the
number of interruptions and magnitude of current interrupted.

They must also be replaced before 30,000 mechanical opera-
tions or when the contacts have been eroded beyond allowed
limits. Vacuum tube replacement procedures are detailed in
the following maintenance instructions.

The curve is Figure 37 is offered as a guide to life expectancy.

s mad

2——.

nm
bar

a
at

> Nee
Lert

S
2

as oc

Ly

s
%
7

a

a Oe

2

10!
4072 4 f 810° 4 gio’ 2 6 310°

la [kA]

Figure 37. Typical Vacuum Interrupter Contact Life Curve

Interrupter Vacuum Check Mechanical (Figures 38-40)
Before putting the breaker into service, or if an interrupter is
suspected of leaking as a result of mechanical damage, check
the vacuum either mechanically as described in this section, or
alternatively, electrically using a high potential test set as
described in the next section.

Open and isolate the breaker and detach the insulated coupler
(48) from lever (48.6) (Figure 38).

The atmospheric pressure will force the moving contact of a
hermetically sealed interrupter into the “Closed” position, caus-
ing lever (48.6) to move into the position shown in Figure 39.

A vacuum interrupter may be assumed to be intact if it shows
the following characteristics:

An appreciable closing force has to be overcome when lever
(48.6) is moved to the “Open” position by hand Figure 40.
When the lever is released, it must automatically return to the
“Closed” position with an audible sound as the contacts touch.

After checking the vacuum, reconnect the lever (48.6) to the
insulated coupler (48).

48 48.6 40

. 48 Insulated coupler
48.6 Lever
a -40° Lower pole support

[1279-94]

Figure 38. Lower Pole Support with Insulated Coupler

27

===== PAGE 30 =====
Maintenance

| 1277-94

Figure 39. Primary Contact Closed - Insulated Coupler
Disconnected

| 1278-94

Figure 40. Primary Contact Forced Open by Manual Pressure

High-Potential Tests

The next series of tests (Vacuum Integrity Test and Insulation
Tests) involve use of high voltage test equipment. The breaker
under test should be inside a suitable test barrier equipped
with warning lights.

Vacuum Integrity Check (using Dielectric Test)

A high potential test is used to verify the vacuum integrity of
the circuit breaker. The test is conducted on the circuit breaker
with its primary contacts in the Open position.

28

A DANGER

High Potential tests employ hazardous voltages.
Will cause severe personal injury and death.

Follow safe procedures, exclude unnecessary per-
sonnel and use safety barriers. Keep away from
the breaker during application of test voltages.
Disconnect the plug jumper from between the cir-

cuit breaker and switchgear before conducting high
potential tests.

AWARNING

Vacuum interrupters may emit X-ray radiation.
r® '

Can cause personal injury.

X-rays can be produced when a high voltage is
placed across two circuit elements in a vacuum.

Keep personnel more than six (6) feet away from a
circuit breaker under test.

High Potential Test Voltages
The voltages for high potential tests are shown in Table 3.

Equipment kV Max AC rms Max DC Avg
Rating
38kV 60kV 85kV

Table 3. High Potential Test Voltages

Note: Do not use DC high potential testers incorporat-
ing half-wave rectification. These devices produce high
peak voltages.

These high voltages will produce X-ray radiation. These devices
also show erroneous readings of leakage current when testing
vacuum circuit breakers.

Vacuum Integrity Test Procedure

1. Observe safety precautions listed in the danger and warming
advisories. Construct the proper barrier and warning light
system.

2. Ground each pole not under test.

3. Apply test voltage across each pole for one minute.
(Breaker open).

4. lf the pole sustains the test voltage for that period, its vac-
uum integrity has been verified.

Note: This test includes not only the vacuum interrupter, but also
the other insulation components in parallel with the interrupter.
These include the standoff insulators and the insulated drive links,
as well as the insulating (tension) struts between the upper and
lower vacuum interrupter supports. lf these insulation components
are contaminated or defective, the test voltage will not be sus-
tained. If so, clean or replace the affected components, and retest.

===== PAGE 31 =====
Maintenance

nal

As-Found Insulation and Contact Resistance Tests
As-Found tests verify the integrity of the breaker insulation sys-
tem. Megger or insulation resistance tests conducted on equip-
ment prior to installation provide a basis of future comparison to
detect changes in the protection afforded by the insulation sys-
tem. A permanent record of periodic As-Found tests enables the
maintenance organization to determine when corrective actions
are required by watching for significant deterioration in insulation
resistance, or increases in contact resistance.

Insulation and Contact Resistance Test Equipment

In addition to the High Potential Test Equipment capable of
test voltages as listed in Table 3, the following equipment is
also required:

¢ AC High Potential tester with test voltage of 1500 volts, 60 Hz
¢ Test equipment for contact resistance tests.

Insulation and Contact Resistance Test Procedure

1.

10.

Observe safety precaution listed in the danger and caution
advisories for the Vacuum Integrity Check tests.

Close the circuit breaker. Ground each pole not under test.
Use manual charging, closing and tripping procedures.

Apply the proper AC (60kV) or DC (85kV) high potential
test voltage between a primary conductor of the pole and
ground for one minute.

If no disruptive discharge occurs, the insulation system is
satisfactory.

After test, ground both ends and the middle of each vacu-
um bottle to dissipate any static charge.

Disconnect the leads to the spring charging motor.

Connect all points of the secondary disconnect with a short-
ing wire. Connect the shorting wire to the high potential lead
of the high voltage tester, and ground the breaker housing.
Starting with zero volts, gradually increase the test voltage to
1500 volts rms, 60 Hz. Maintain test voltage for one minute.

lf no disruptive discharge occurs, the secondary control
insulation level is satisfactory.

Disconnect the shorting wire and re-attach the leads to the
spring charging motor.

Perform contact resistance tests of the primary contacts.
Contact resistance should not exceed the values listed in
Table 4.

Current Rating Contact Resistance
(Amps) (Micro-Ohms)
1200 40
2000 35
3000 35

Table 4. Maximum Contact Resistance

Inspection and Cleaning of Breaker Insulation

1.

Perform the Spring Discharge Check on the circuit breaker
after all control power is removed. The Spring Discharge
Check consists of 1) depressing the red Trip pushbutton,
2) then depressing the black Close pushbutton, and 3)
again depressing the red Trip pushbutton. All of these con-
trols are on the breaker front panel. visually verify the
Discharge condition of the springs.

Remove any interphase and outerphase barriers as shown
in Figure 7.

Clean barriers and post insulators using clean cloth and
one of the following solvents:

* No. 1 or No. 2 denatured alcohol

¢ lsopropyl or isobutyl alcoho!

Replace all barriers. Check all visible fasteners again for
condition and tightness.

Note: Do not use any cleaning compounds containing
chlorinated hydrocarbons such as trichlorethylene, per-
chlorethylene or carbon tetrachloride.

These compounds will damage the phenylene ether copoly-
mer material used in the barriers and other insulation on the
circuit breaker.

Functional Tests

Refer to the Installation Checklist in the Installation Checks
and Initial Functional Tests section of this manual. Functional
tests consist of performing at least three (3) Manual Spring
Charging Checks and three (3) Automatic Spring Charging
Checks. After these tests are complete, and the springs fully
discharged, all fasteners and connections are checked again
for tightness and condition before re-installing the breaker into
the metal-clad switchgear.

29

===== PAGE 32 =====
Overhaul

Introduction

The following procedures along with the troubleshooting
charts at the end of this section, provide maintenance person-
nel with a guide to identifying and correcting possible malfunc-
tions of the type 38-3AF vacuum circuit breaker.

AWARNING

Hazardous voltages and high speed moving
parts.

Can cause death, severe personal injury, or
property damage.

Read instruction manual. All work must be per-
formed with the breaker completely de-ener-
gized and the springs discharged. Limit work to
qualified personnel.

Circuit Breaker Overhaul

Table 5 lists the recommended overhaul schedule for type
38-BAF circuit breakers operating under ANSI usual conditions.
When actual operating conditions are more severe, overhaul
periods should occur more frequently. The counter on the front
panel of the circuit breaker records the number of operations.

Breaker Type Number of
Closing Operations
38-3AF 30,000

Table 5 Overhaul Schedule
ANSI Usual Conditions
Maintenance Based Upon Number of Closing Operations

Replacement at Overhaul
The following components are replaced during an overhaul of
the circuit breaker, when required:

Vacuum interrupters as determined by vacuum integrity
test, contact erosion, or after 30,000 operations.

Spring Release Coil, 52SRC

Shunt Trip Coil, 52T

Trip Free Drive Bar Mechanism

When these parts are changed, locking devices must also be
removed and replaced. These include lock washers, retaining
rings, retaining clips, spring pins, cotter pins, etc.

1.

2.

30

Replace Vacuum Interrupter, instructions follow.

Spring Release Coil (62SRC) and Shunt Trip Coil (627).

a. Remove two “push on” terminal connections

b. Remove two M4 hex head screws and dismount sole-
noid drawing it towards you.

c. Install replacement solenoids with two M4 hex head
screws and replace "push on” terminals.

d. Solenoid mounting screws must be installed using
thread locking adhesive (Loctite #222, Siemens part
15-133-281-007) and primer (Loctite primer T,
Siemens part 15-133-281-005).

3. Lubricate operating mechanism in accordance with
instructions which follow.

4. When work is finished operate circuit breaker (close/open}
several times, and check that all screw connections are tight.

Replacement of Vacuum Interrupters

Replacement interrupters are furnished as a complete assem-
bly. They have been completely tested and are dielectrically
and mechanically conditioned.

It is recommended that one interrupter be removed and replaced
completely rather than removing two or more interrupters at a
time. The following procedure in check list format describes the
procedure for removing and replacing a vacuum interrupter.
Components may be identified by reference to Figures 41 and 42.

1. Removing the interrupter

Note: Special care needs to be exercised in removal or
installation of hardware around the bottom, or movable
contact end, of the vacuum interrupter.

The movable contact uses a metal bellows to maintain the
vacuum seal while still permitting up and down motion of
the contact. This bellows is rugged and reliable, and is
designed to withstand years of vertical movement.
However, care should be exercised to avoid subjecting the
bellows to excessive torque during removal and replace-
ment. Twisting the bellows through careless bolt removal or
tightening may damage the vacuum interrupter.

1.1 Before starting work, the circuit breaker should be iso-
lated from all primary and control power sources and
all stored energy discharged by tripping, closing, and
tripping the breaker by hand. Discharge any static
charge by grounding all end and center metal sections
of the vacuum interrupter. Carefully remove exterior
and interphase barriers.

1.2 Loosen the lateral bolt(s) on terminal clamp (29.2).
Refer to Figure 42 and employ the illustrated proce-
dure to loosen clamp hardware. (6 or 8mm hex key
and 13 or 16mm socket).

1.3 Withdraw pin (48.5) from insulating coupler (48) and
levers (48.6).

1.4 Remove coupling pin from the eye bolt (36.3)

1.5 Free struts (28) from the upper pole support (20).
Loosen the strut hardware on the lower support (40)
and swing the struts forward and downward (16mm
open end wrench and 16mm socket).

1.6 Loosen screws which secure the centering ring (28.1)
(10mm open end).

1.7 Remove bolt (31.2), lockwasher and large washer at
stationary contact of the vacuum interrupter (24mm
socket). Carefully note location of the conductive
spacer between interrupter and pole support. This
spacer has a concave surface which must be handled
with care to avoid damage.

===== PAGE 33 =====
Overhaul —

1.8 Using a deep 24mm socket, loosen and remove hex
capscrew fastening the upper pole support to the
post insulator. Completely remove the upper pole
support and set aside.

1.9 Grasp the vacuum interrupter (30) and withdraw verti-
cally. Assistance may be required to work the terminal
clamp off the movable stem of the tube. FORCIBLE
TWISTING EFFORT IS NOT ALLOWED. if the termi-
nal clamp cannot be easily removed, STOP, check to
be certain hardware is loose, and the clamp is not
binding.

2. Installing an Interrupter

NOTE: Replacement interrupter (30) will be received from
the factory with an eyebolt (36.3) in place, adjusted and
torqued to specific requirements. DO NOT ALTER THE
ADAPTER SETTING.

2.1 Inspect ail silver plated connection surfaces for cleanli-
ness. Clean only with a cloth and solvent. Do not
abraid.

2.2 Insert interrupter. (30) in the lower pole support (40)
with the evacuation nipple (P) facing the mechanism
housing. Slip terminal clamp (29.2) into position on the
movable stem.

Position of Torque Wrench to Avoid Undue Stressing
of Moving Terminal 36.1

— Vacuum Interrupter 30

Holding Wrench Terminal 36.1

Terminal Clamp 29.2

P = Direction of Force

Shee
°7 1 16.1
y
30 ——™ J 7
_ t P
28 —_|
i
28.1]
259.35 ‘a
29.1 ik
Ea 36.1
29.2 FA
LA Wh esc 43
2g /, Li 48.9
36.3 / | 48.4
40 48.6 48.5

Figure 41. Vacuum Tube Replacement illustration

Figure 42. {Illustration Showing Required Technique for
Fastening Terminal Clamp Hardware

2.3 Install the conductive spacer between the fixed
(upper) terminal of the vacuum interrupter (30) and
the upper pole support (20), with the concave side of
the spacer facing the vacuum interrupter. Align and
fasten “finger tight” using heavy flat washer, lock
washer and nut, (31.2).

2.4 Fasten the upper pole support to the post insulator
using finger pressure only using a hex head (M16)
bolt, lock washer and flat washer.

2.5 Attach struts (28) to the upper pole support (20) replace
hardware (M10), but do not tighten at this time.

2.6 Couple levers (48.6) to the eyebolt (36.3), using the
pin supplied. Apply retention clips. Appropriate pin is
modestly chamfered, not to be confused with pin for
the insulated coupler.

2.7 Raise terminal clamp (29.2) against the spacer (29.3)
on the movable terminal of the vacuum tube (36.1)
and position the interrupter (30) so that its groove
faces the connecting surface of flexible strap (29.1).
Refer to Figure 42 and employ the technique illustrated
to fasten the terminal clamp. Note opposing wrenches.
Tighten the bolt(s) of the terminal clamp to a torque of
AO Nm (30 ft. Ibs.), taking care to see that the terminal
of the interrupter is not subjected to excessive bending
movement.

NOTE: Excessive bending movement exerted while fasten-
ing the terminal clamp will damage the vacuum interrupter.

2.8 Align pole support (20) correctly and tighten bolt fas-
tening it to the post insulator. Fasten securely all bolts
associated with struts (28).

31

===== PAGE 34 =====
Overhaul

4.

32

2.9 Tighten interrupter fastening bolt (31:2) on the upper
pole support (20) holding the interrupter firmly by its
upper insulator and operate levers (48.6), by hand, to
see whether the movable contact moves freely. If any
binding or lack of freedom is noted, loosen bolt (31.2)
and adjust the interrupter in pole support by turning
the interrupter and moving it slightly.

2.10 The centering ring (28.1) has been loose and
“floating” during installation of the vacuum interrupter.
Check that the movable contact is free to move vertically
without binding, and then tighten the hardware which
secures the centering ring. Recheck that the movable
contact is free to move vertically without binding.

2.11 Attach insulating coupler (48) and lever (48.6) together,
using pin (48.5). Apply retaining clips. Correct pin has
ends which have been generously chamfered.

2.12 Open and close breaker several times and then check
to see that all bolted joints and devices are tight.

Checking the Contact Stroke
3.1 Open the circuit breaker.

3.2 Free insulating coupler (48) by removing pin (48.5).
The interrupter contacts must now close automatical-
ly as a consequence of atmospheric pressure.

3.3 Observe the terminal clamp (29.2) through the open-
ings on each side of the lower pole support (40).
Using vernier calipers measure the distance from the
bottom surface of the terminal clamp to the bottom
edge of the cutout opening. Measure carefully and
record your result.

3.4 Connect the insulating coupler (48) using pin (48.5)
and the retaining clips provided.

3.5 Repeat the measurement described in step 3.3 again
with care to maximize accuracy. Record your result.

3.6 Determine difference between the measurements
made under steps 3.3 and 3.5. Your result should be
19-20mm (0.748-0.787 in.)

3.7 If you fail to achieve the listed results, carefully repeat
the entire procedure making certain of your measure-
ments.

3.8 Loosen locking nut on eyebolt on insulated coupler
(48), and retain position of the eye. Make adjustments
in one-half turn increments. After adjustment is com-
pleted, tighten eyebolt locking nut to 26-34 ft-lb. (35-
45 Nm).

After eyebolt is tightened to proper torque, repeat all mea-
surement procedures, making certain they are in agree-
ment with values indicated in 3.6.

Complete all other maintenance procedures. Completely
reassembled breaker should pass high potential test
before it is ready for service.

‘Hydraulic. Shock Absorber

The type 38-3AF mechanism is equipped with hydraulic shock
absorber and a stop bar.that functions when the breaker opens.
See Figure 15. The shock absorber (61.8) should require no
adjustment. However, at maintenance checks, the shock
absorber. should be examined for evidence of leaking. If evidence
of fluid leakage is found, the shock absorber must be.replaced to
prevent damage to the. vacuum interrupter bellows.

===== PAGE 35 =====
Maintenance and Troubleshooting

Sub-Assembly

tem

Inspect For

Primary Power Path

Vacuum Interrupter

. Cleanliness
_ Contact erosion. Note: Perform with Manual Spring Checks

. Vacuum integrity. Note: Perform with High Potential Tests

Primary Disconnects

. Burnt or damaged fingers

. Lubrication of contact surfaces.

Vacuum Interrupter Contact

_ Record contact resistance with contacts closed, and re-check each year

Resistance to monitor condition.
Interrupter Operator Mechanism] Cleanliness . Dirt or foreign material
Fasteners . Tightness of nuts and other locking devices.

Manual Spring Check

_ Smooth operation of manual charging, and manual closing and trip-

ping
Lubrication . Evidence of excessive wear
. Lubrication of wear points
Electrical Controls Wiring _ Mechanical damage or abrasion

Terminals and Connectors

. Tightness and absence of mechanical damage

Close and Trip Solenoids, Anti-Pump
Relay, Auxiliary Switches, Secondary
Disconnect

. Automatic charging

. Close and trip with control power

High Potential Test

Primary Circuit to Ground and between
Primary Disconnects

. 60 second withstand, 60kV, 60 Hz (85kV DC)

Contro! Circuit to Ground

. 60 second withstand, 1500V, 60 Hz

Insulation

Barriers and all Insulating Components

. Cleanliness

_ Cracking, crazing, tracking, or other sign of deterioration

Table 6. Periodic Maintenance and Lubrication Tasks

33

===== PAGE 36 =====
Maintenance and Troubleshooting

Problem

Symptoms

Possible Causes and Remedies

Breaker fails to close

Closing springs will not
automatically charge

1. Secondary control circuit is de-energized or control circuit fuses are
blown. Check and energize or replace if necessary

2. Secondary disconnect contacts 15 or 16 are not engaging. Check
and replace if required.

3. Damage to wiring, terminals or connectors. Check and repair as
necessary.

4. Failure of charging motor (88) Replace if required.

5. Motor cut-off switch LS21 or LS22 fails to operate. Replace if nec-
essary.

6. Mechanical failure of operating mechanism. Refer to factory or
authorized service shop.

Closing springs charge, but breaker
does not close

© Closing coil, or solenoid (52SRC)
fails to energize. No sound of
breaker closing.

© Closing coil energizes. Sound of
breaker closing is heard, but
breaker contacts do not close.

1. Secondary control circuit de-energized or control circuit fuses blown.
Correct as indicated.

2. No closing signal to secondary disconnect pin 13. Check for continu-
ity and correct relay logic.

3. Secondary disconnect contacts 13 or 15 are not engaging. Check
and correct as required.

4. Failure of antipump relay (52Y) contacts 21-22 or 31-32 or 13-14.
Check and replace as required.

5. Failure of close coil (solenoid) (52SRC). Check and replace as
required.

6. Auxiliary switch NC contacts 41-42 are open when breaker contacts
are open. Check linkage and switch. Replace or adjust as necessary.

7. Spring charged switch LS9 NO contacts remains open after springs

are charged. Check and replace as required.

1. Mechanical failure of operating mechanism. Check and contact fac-
tory or authorized service shop.

Table 7. Troubleshooting

34


===== PAGE 37 =====
Maintenance and Troubleshooting

Problem

Symptoms

Possible Causes and Remedies

Nuisance or false close

Electrical problem

Nuisance or false closing signal to secondary disconnect contact 13.
Check relay logic. Correct as required.

Closing coil (52SRC) terminal A2 is shorted to ground. Check to
determine if problems in wiring or coil. Correct as required.

Mechanical Problem

_ Mechanical failure of operating mechanism. Check and contact fac-

tory or authorized service shop.

Circuit breaker will not trip

Tripping coil, or solenoid (521) does not
energize. There is no tripping sound.

. Secondary control power is de-energized or control power fuses are

. Damage to wiring, terminals or connectors. Check and repair as

. No tripping signal to secondary disconnect contact 1. Check for con-

. Secondary disconnect contacts 1 or 2 are not engaging. Check and

. Failure of trip coil (527). Check and replace if necessary.

. Auxiliary switch NO contacts 23-24 or 33-34 are open when breaker

blown. Correct as indicated.

necessary.

tinuity and correct relay logic.

replace if required.

is closed. Check linkage and switch. Replace or adjust as necessary.

Tripping coil (52T) energizes. No trip-
ping sound is heard, and breaker
contacts do not open (ie., they
remain closed).

. Failure of tripping spring or its mechanical linkage. Check and

replace if required.

Tripping coil (527) energizes. Tripping
sound is heard, but breaker contacts
do not open.

. Mechanical failure of operating mechanism. Check and contact fac-

_ One or more of the vacuum interrupters are held closed. Check and

tory or authorized service shop.

replace as necessary.

Nuisance or false trip

Electrical problem

. Tripping signal remains energized on secondary disconnect contact

4. Check for improper relay logic.

Mechanical problem

. Mechanical failure of operating mechanism. Check and contact fac-

tory or authorized service shop.

Table 7. Troubleshooting

35

===== PAGE 38 =====
Appendix

Table A-1
Type 38-3AF Circuit Breaker Ratings

Identification Rated Values Rated Required Capabilities
Nominal} Nominal Voltage insulation Level Current Current Values
Voltage | 3-Phase}| Rated | Rated | Rated Withstand | Rated | Rated Rated | Rated | Rated Max. | 3-Sec. Closing and
Class MVA Max. } Voltage Test Voltage Cont. | Short Inter- | Permis-| Max. Sym. Short Latching
Class |} Voltage | Range Current | Circuit | rupting} sible | Voltage} Inter Time Capability
@ @ Factor @® Current | Time | Tripping} Divided | rupting | Current} (Momentary)
(63) {at rated delay | by K | Capability} Carrying
Max kV) Y @ | Capability
Low | Impulse ® © KTimes Rated | 16K | 27K
Frequency Short Circuit Times | Times
Current Rated | Rated
KI “Short | Short

Circuit | Circuit
Current } Current

Circuit
Breaker MVA E kV | E/K
Type |kVClass} Class | kVrms K kVrms | Crest Amps | kAmms | Cycles Sec. | kVrms | kArms] kArms | kArms | kA Crest
383AF-| 38 — 38 1.0 80 150 1200 | 315 5 2 38 315 31.5 50 85
31 2000
3000 @|
38-3AF-| 38 1500 38 1.65 80 150 1200 21 5 2 23 35 35 56 95
1500 2000 ,
3000 @
1. Included for reference only (no longer shown in ANS! C37.06)
2. Maximum voltage for which the breaker is designed and the upper limit for operation.
3. Kis the ratio of rated maximum voltage to the lower limit of the range of operating voltage in which the required symmetrical
and asymmetrical interrupting capabilities vary in inverse proportion to the operating voltage.
4, 2000 ampere units available with increased fan-cooled rating of 3000 amperes.
5. To obtain the required symmetrical interrupting capability of a circuit breaker at an operating voltage between 1/K times rated

7.

maximum voltage and rated maximum voltage, the following formula shall be used:
Rated Maximum Voltage

Operating Voltage
For operating voltages below 1/K times rated maximum voltage, the required symmetrical interrupting capability of the circuit
breaker shall be equal to K times rated short circuit current.
With the limitation stated in 5.10 of ANSI Standard C37.04-1979, all values apply for polyphase and line-to-line faults. For single
phase-to-ground faults, the specific conditions stated in 5.10.2.3.0f ANS! Standard C37.04-1979 apply.
Current values in this column are not to be exceeded even for operating voltages below 1/K times rated maximum voltage. For
voltages between rated maximum voltage and 1/K times rated maximum voltage, follow 5 above.

Required Symmetrical Interrupting Capacity = Rated Short Circuit Current x

8. Current values in this column are independent of operating voltage up to and including rated maximum voltage.
9. Ratings in accordance with ANSI C37.06-1987.
10. Ratings in accordance with propsed ANSI C37.06-199x. (proposed)
Table A-2
Type 38-3AF Circuit Breaker Control Data
Control Voltages, ANSI C37.06 Table 10 Spring Charging Motor
Close Coil Trip Coil .
Nominal Range Amperes Charging
Close Trip Amperes @ Amperes @ Run (avg.) @ Seconds
48 VDC 38-56 28-56 2.1 20 8 10
125 VDC 400-140 70-140 1.0 5.4 4 10
250 VDC 200-280 140-280 0.5 2.1 2 10
120 VAC 104-127 104-127 0.9 — @ 6 10
240 VAC 208-254 208-254 0.4 — ® 3 10
1. Current at nominal voltage. 2. Capacitor trip

36

===== PAGE 39 =====
Appendix

a

Table A-3 Table A-4
Interrupting Capacity Auxiliary Switch Contacts Circuit Breaker Weights
Type Auxiliary Switch “Current Control Circuit Voltage Breaker ae Lbs. ka) ©
Amperes | 420 vac | 240 VAC | 48 voc | 125 VDC | 250 VDC Type (Continuous Current, Amperes
Non-Inductive Circuit Interrupting Capacity in Amperes 1200A |_2000A 3000A
Breaker Auxiliary 30 10 5 ro) 5 3 38-3AF | 780 (355)) 880 (400) | 880 (400)
TOC Auxiliary Switch 15 15 10 0.5 0.5 0.2 1. For shipping, add 100 Ibs (45kg).
MOC Auxiliary 20 15 10 10 10 5
inductive Circuit Interrupting Capacity in Amperes
Breaker Auxiliary Switch 20 10 5 20 @ 5 3
TOC Auxiliary Switch 15 15 10 0.5 0.5 0.2
MOC Auxiliary 20 15 10 10 10 5
1. 2 Contacts in series
Table A-5
Selected Spare Parts Listing
Type 38-3AF Vacuum Circuit Breakers
Description Part No. Quantity per Breaker
Close Coil 48 VDC 18-741-745-506 1
125 VDC/120 VAC 18-741-745-507 1
250 VDC/240 VAC 18-741-745-508 1
Trip Coil 48 VDC 18-809-123-501 1
125 VDC/120 VAC 18-741-745-503 1
250 VDC/240 VAC 18-741-745-504 1
Anti-Pump Relay 48 VDC 15-172-275-002 1
125 VDC 15-172-275-003 1
250 VDC 15-172-275-004 1
120 VAC 15-172-275-005 1
240 VAC 15-172-275-006 1
Spring Charging Motor 48 VDC 18-480-848-001 1
125 VDC/120 VAC 18-480-848-002 1
250 VDC/240 VAC 18-480-848-003 1
Limit Switches LS41 (Spring charged) 18-809-506-501 1
LS21 or LS22 (Motor circuit) 18-809-506-502 2
LS3 or LS9 (Anti-Pump circuit) 18-809-506-503 2
Auxiliary switch 33-101-600-022 1
Vacuum interrupter Assembly (VS30030) 18-737-104-511 3
Breaker secondary disconnect assembly 18-814-029-501 1
Primary disconnect finger assembly 1200A 18-816-350-503 6
2000A 18-816-350-502 6

37

===== PAGE 40 =====
Siemens Energy

S i E Mi E N S & Automatiom, Inc.
Switchgear & Motor Control!
Division
P.O. Box 29503
Raleigh, NC 27626-0503

Bulletin SG-3528 (new) 1M O694FP Printed in U.S.A. © 1994 Siemens Energy & Automation, inc.
Siemens is a registered trademark of Siemens AG.
